# Falco Office Hours - Meeting 13th June 2019

**MC:** Michael Ducy

**Who joined**

- Michael Ducy ([@mfdii](https://github.com/mfdii))
- Radhika Puthiyetath ([@radhikapc](https://github.com/radhikapc))
- Jean Lachance ([@JPLachance](https://github.com/JPLachance))
- Mark Stemm ([@mstemm](https://github.com/mstemm))
- Kaizhe Huang ([@kaizhe](https://github.com/kaizhe))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@issif](https://github.com/issif))

## This week highlights
- 0.15.3 - Shipped
- Prow on Falco

## Proposals

[office-hours#10](https://github.com/falcosecurity/office-hours/issues/10):
Discuss Falco Images and how they are built.

- **Jean**: create a mini container as a helper to build the kernel module and drop the kernel module. Later on the main container pick up the kernel module via mount. The downside is for k8s/openshift only. Mini-ubuntu is down the load can be used. Having a different dev and stable docker image might not be a good idea. Should be combined ? Support Ubuntu 14.04 ? I can do the code review for PoC.
- **Mark**: Use insmod. The init container do the load and the main container did the unload.  Has a plan to shrink the image to build into alpine image. Dev and Stable dockerfile can be combined. Mark will do that. Keep the old compiled version for redhat. Sysdig people can do it.
- **Ducy**: Multi-stage dockerfile. A build container will generate the RPM and then docker pick up the RPM file. The dockerfile doesn’t compile Falco at the moment. In the run stage, just copy the build result that can be used.  Redhat6 is something to support. Using init container to build kernel module is repeatable.
- **Topic**: Vulnerabilities Management in Image
- **Mark**: the number is high, need some expertise to remove them
- **Jean**: Upgrade version should remove a lot of them.


Issues with EC2 and Systemd Unit File needed.

- **Jean**: Using a lot of CPU in EC2 instances, it was bad. Also saw crashes multiple times. Need to address that issue if we want to deploy falco in production. With Ansible the systemd trigger the reload. I don’t know how it build. It is sort of critical. No log for falco crash. The falco log into syslog. There is nothing interesting there. It runs for a few hours and then crash. We need to do apt-get update before upgrade another version of falco. Right now we don’t do apt-update. We setup the repo, but after that we never call apt-get update. We should not use puppet to do upgrade. We simply push new AMI to upgrade falco. User Management binary rule get triggered a lot.
- **Ducy**: Walk me through this. Drop it in the puppet code. It is built via cmake. Any log for the falco crash? Regarding FP, kaizhe is the person to contact.
- **Kaizhe**: Let’s spend time to go through JP’s scenario to make some rules for his particular environment. Looks puppet generate a lot of noise there.
