# Falco Office hours - Meeting 25th July 2019

**MC**: Leonardo Di Donato

**Who joined**:

- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Michael Ducy ([@mfdii](https://github.com/mfdii))
- Kaizhe Huang ([@kaizhe](https://github.com/kaizhe))
- Mark Stemm ([@mstemm](https://github.com/mstemm))
- Dan Beaulieu ([@danbeaulieu](https://github.com/danbeaulieu))
- Mark Fulton

## This week's Highlights

- Fix for incomplete metadata ([falco#716](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/716))
- New `falco-builder` docker image based on CentOs 7 with a newer toolchain (gcc 7.3.1, cpp 2014, CMake 3.5) ([falco#719](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/719))
- New `falco-tester` docker image based on Fedora 28, ensuring Avocado Testing Framework in use is version 69 ([falco#719](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/719))
- New release process for Falco ([falco#726](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/726#issuecomment-515068046)) ([office-hours#](https://github.com/falcosecurity/office-hours/issues/26))
- Falco's Cheatsheets template ready ([falco-website#49](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/49))
- Falco's website support for ZH translations ([falco-website#48](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/48))

## Proposals/Issues

[falco#726](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/726#issuecomment-515068046): Automating/rethinking the Falco release process

- **Leo**: There's an issue in office-hours repo, number [26](https://github.com/falcosecurity/office-hours/issues/26), which links back to a proposal I made for the creation of an automated release workflow for Falco, managed by [@poaiana](https://github.com/poiana).
- **Michael**: Do you mind sharing your screen?
- **Leo**: Sure! Here it is. The motivation for this proposal is that the current release process is completely manual. What's worse is that this process is also completely obscure to the community. I would like the Falco's users and community to be able to understand and know in advance what will be inside the next Falco release, and approx. when such set of changes will be released. To do so I propose ...

_Leo presents the concepts and phases of the proposal present at [726](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/726#issuecomment-515068046) one by one_.

- **Leo**: So that's it. I would like to know what Mark Stemm thinks about this idea.
- **Mark**: Oh I didn't know that poiana bot has these capabilities too! I want just double-check: it will also be able to perform actions (like tagging) on the sysdig repo? Is that right?
- **Leo**: At the moment it is not able. But in case we want, we can enable poiana also for the sysdig repo yes! Otherwise that part of the workflow will remain manual for now.
- **Michael**: Ehm what happens is that we tag sysdig referring to a falco release.
- **Mark**: That's almost right. Actually we have a branch called `falco-master` in sysdig repo on which we put tags.
- **Leo**: Yeah I know...
- **Mark**: I think we could probably create tag handly there. Because, you know, the idea in this process is that the changelog acts as a signal. So during the changelog PR we could create a tag in the sysdig repo if it's succeds. And as long the build fails the process stops (no tag).
- **Leo**: Yeah! Anyway I'll take another bit of time to brainstorming about this idea. If you have other ideas on how to integrate this release process between the two repos please write them down in the issue! Thanks. Khaize do you have any preference about this matter?
- **Khaize**: I do not have preferences. What Mark said make sense too!

[falco#716](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/716): Fix for incomplete metadata

- **Leo**: This week a cool PR fixing the incomplete metadata problem has been merged thanks to Michael and Lorenzo! Michael do you want to talk about your debugging work? Would you mind sharing your screen too?
- **Michael**: So we had a bug where Falco was not showing container information. Notice this is not related to a similar one we're having on COS. This is releated to how we were demonizing the process in all containerized environments. So essentialy we were demonizing a process which in turn was killing the thread having all the metadata. This was related to the moment at which we fork. So at the moment this problem seems fixed thanks to PR [731](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/731). I'll follow up with the frame.io folks to ensure this is really fixed.
- **Leo**: Ok, thanks for updating us!
- **Leo**: As said privately, during the manual testing of that PR I noticed there's a case in which we still miss the container image name metadata. I noticed that while spawning a shell, eg., `docker run -ti alpine sh`. But it happens only some times, it is not simple to reproduce it in a stable way. I suspect that this is a separate issue which is caused by the Kubernetes API. Me and Lorenzo will investigate further this edge case.

[falco#736](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/736): New contributors starting to submit rule edits

- **Leo**: Now I want to update you folks about some little rule contributions that we had from the community. A new contributor has submitted the PR [736](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/736). I'd like to thank Khaize for helping him and me in the review process. This PR allows `prom/node-exporter` and `google/cadvisor` to mount sensitive paths, while a previous one ([733](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/733)) by Khaize allows the same for the `netdata/netdata` image.
- **Khaize**: No problem!

([falco#719](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/719))

- **Leo**: I would like to present the work I've done in PR [719](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/719). This PR is huge since it accomplishes various improvements.
- **Leo**: The most notable things it introduces are:
  - a new `falco-builder` using CentOS 7 as base image with toolset 7; which means it contains and uses gcc 7.3.1 (with cpp 2014), CMake 3.5.0
  - a new `falco-tester` docker image using Fedora 28; this because the current one uses `pip` to download the Avocado Testing framework we are using for running Falco regression tests: it downloads version 52 while we need version 69; thus this new image ensures that
  - automatic `FALCO_VERSION` from git index: when not specified manually the `FALCO_VERSION` variable is now the exact git tag whether there is one or a version `0.<hash>[.dirty]`; so we do not have anymore a default `0.1.1dev` version for Falco and we can related the version to the git history we have
  - CMake has been bumped up to version 3.3.2; the same we have on the internal Jenkins CI, but the plan is to raise it to 3.5.0 soon
  - the TravisCI finally really runs the `DEBUG` build now: currently it is running two time the `RELEASE` build type. Please notice that to have the `DEBUG` build type working I needed to force the disable of assertion using `DNDEBUG` flag.
  - case-insensitive `BUILD_TYPE` and `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` and consequently case-insensitive build paths: the user will end up using only `release` or `debug` paths in order to avoid confusion
  - a bunch of other little improvements on the Cmake, TravisCI, and Jenkins scripts.
- **Leo**: So this PR directly fixes 3 issues: [723](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/723), [660](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/660), [623](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/623) (the one about vsyscalls). I'd like to have a final review for all of you if possible. Michael do you mind taking a look at it too? Thanks!
- **Michael**: Sure will do very soon!
- **Mark**: Yes!

Discussion about the Falco docker image

- **Michael**: We have a new person on the phone, Dan. Thank you for joining us.
- **Dan**: I didn't submitted an issue for the GitHub Office Hours repo but I do have a topic. It's now a good time?
- **Leo**: Sure!
- **Dan**: We are using Falco on our Kubernetes cluster. I have some questions about the Falco docker image. We are interested in either customizing it ourselves or possibly hearing more if there are feature plans for it in Falco. There is a plan for refactoring the image itself? And when it's going to happen?
- **Michael**: Yes there is an intent to refactor it. Basically the plan is to split out as much as possible the build tools that we ship inside the container and just ship the Falco binaries and its dependencies.
- **Michael**: For the kernel module we we'd do is we would have either an init container that you'll run and dinamically give you the module, or you can supply your own init container which already have a precompiled kernel module.
- **Dan**: In practice what does mean? Does it mean like using a different base layer? It goes in the direction of using slimmer docker images?
- **Michael**: Well we still do not know which base image to support. This because if we wanna support things like CentOS 6 we have to use Debina unstable in order to get all the things compiled. At the moment this is in hold because of the Sysdig commercial version. We just need to make a decision about what distros we are going to support and what that means. I think that for Falco we wann dump CentOS 6 but for Sysdig we do not want that probably. Clearly most of our users are Kubernetes users and they are not running it on CentOS 6.
- **Mark**: Anyway 6 will be gone in 2020!
- **Dan**: Ok, in terms of timeline. The refactor may happen in the 2020 or before?
- **Michael**: No, we are going through a process of prioritizing these things. So hopefully during the next Office Hours call we'd have more news about this plan and its timeline! Also because the issue came up several times from different people: they do not want debian unstable, they do not like the fact we are shipping the build tools inside the security product.
- **Dan**: Yeah the image itself has been flagged by some internal components folks... Is there a GitHub issue that's tracking that?
- **Leo**: There is one related, the [532](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/532), on which you also commented!
- **Dan**: Do you think this topic can be negotiated?
- **Michael**: I think it's up for negotiation. We just need to choose which distro to support and which not.
- **Dan**: Gotcha.
- **Mark**: I think for Falco itself that the way to go is to use debian unstable only to build the kernel module and the final docker image will containing it and will be based on some smaller base image like alpine or bitnami debian callend minideb.
- **Leo**: Yeah a two step build.
- **Dan**: Also because Kubernetes itself is through a process of migrating to slim base images. They have a debian variant for cases in which they need other packages. It would be really helpful for us to have something similar for Falco too, especially for compliance.
- **Mark**: Yeah that sounds like a good candidate also! But now I have to switch to another call, see y'all!
- **Michael**: If you have some spare time this is a good option to start contributing!
- **Dan**: Agree, cool! Well thank you guys for being such great this office hours thing is awesome!
- **Leo**: Keep joining us!
- **Mark**: Sorry I have another meeting! Bye.

[falco-website#49](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/49), [falco-website#48](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/48): Discussion about Falco website capabilities.

- **Leo**: I want to update y'all about the fact that now, thanks to Luc Perkins from CNCF, the Falco website has the ability to render Chinese documentation under the https://falco.org/zh URL. Maybe Khaize, if he wants, can start to put some docs into helping us?
- **Leo**: We also have a new feature which is worth mentioning. Falco website has now the ability to render cheatsheets. They are ment to me printed, so a paper containing the most common rules, macros, flags, one-liners and very short things like that about using Falco. In my opinion they are a great tool for the community. I invite everyone to start contributing groups and blocks so to create the Cheatsheet(s) which is for now still a draft and so it's not publicly visible on the Falco website yet.
- **Michael**: Awesome, great!