## Falco Office Hours

### MC

- Kris Nova

### Who joined

- Kris Nova - Sysdig
- Marky Jackson
- Michael Ducy
- Rajib
- Loris Degioanni
- Lorenzo Fontana (@fntlnz)
- Leonardo Di Donato (@leodido)
- John Fitzpatrick
- Jorge Salamero Sanz (@bencer)
- Thomas Labarussias (@issif)


### Agenda

- Volunteer for next week office hours
  - [Ducy]
- Prometheus exporter
  - Waiting for the gRPC server to stream other data
  - Exposing metrics about dropped alerts (we need this in gRPC outputs)
  - Ducy, Leo: Can we get a grafana dashboard
  - Leo: adding an issue for dropped alerts and will add to 0.19
  - Leo: Trying for demo for next week 
- Renaming of office hours repo into community
- Recording community calls / Falco Youtube
  - Live stream tomorrow
  - Admins
    - Marky 
    - Rajib
  - Falco vs Sysdig channel
    - Bencer: Can we add a playlist for Falco items
    - Falco talks, TGIK, FOSDEM Falco talk
  - Restream.io 
- Status for CNCF (whatâ€™s missing for a level up?)
  - Ducy: https://hackmd.io/@C6t2xz2ySF2BuV56KW4yKg/HJHMf0dur
  - Falco + OPA
  - Our main reason for wanting to be promoted
- Bencer: Question about Falco rules
  - How can we ask for help with beautifying the rules
  - Jorge to tweet and we can all rt
  - Ducy: possibly going to Kubernetes slack / other slack
- Status of the build
  - Marky: docs + doodles for another planning call
  - We have been talking about it for several weeks - where are we?
  - We pushed back the planning call twice
- Grooming for 0.18.0
- Falcoctl
  - Nova will give it a once over and add dependency management
- Leo: Last day of September put Falco in Hacktoberfest 
  - Added hacktoberfest and good first issue labels to Falco
  - Please add to other repos too
  - Ducy: will add a few labels
  - Falco Hacktoberfest issues 
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3Ahacktoberfest 