# Falco Office hours - Meeting 6th June 2020

**MC:** Leonardo Di Donato

**Who joined**:

- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- Kaizhe Huang ([@kaizhe](https://github.com/kaizhe))
- Marky Jackson ([@markyjackson-taulia](https://github.com/markyjackson-taulia))
- Nataly Sheinin ([@natalysheinin](https://github.com/natalysheinin)), Shopify
- Andy Mcleod, Shopify

## This week highlights

- Coding style guidelines
- CI: JenkinsX + Prow
- Falco: fix includes
- Falco: unit testing
- Falco: mocking and spying library for future unit tests
- Incubation: technical due diligence requirements

## Proposals

**Leonardo**: Not a lot of proposals in the office hours repo this week. Let's first start with a thing I proposed days ago, you can find it in the office hours issues list, issue number #16. Then we'll proceed with other on-going discussions.

[office-hours#16](https://github.com/falcosecurity/office-hours/issues/16): Coding style conventions

- **Leonardo**: As proposed into this issue I proposed to add coding style conventions in order to ensure the code all the contributors write follows the same set of style rules. This turns to be also something related to the Technical Due Diligence that Falco will have to pass in order to advance in the incubation stage of the CNCF, which we'll try to achieve on October. This topic is part of the broader topic of code quality about which we are also performing other tasks, namely the introduction of unit tests.
- **Lorenzo**: About this matter we just setup two basic coding style set of rules, one for C++ files, which is already merged in (look at [.clang-format](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/dev/.clang-format) file), and another for CMake files (the PR number is [falco#703](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/703)).
- **Leonardo**: Asks Khaize if he has preferences, suggestions, or insights about the set of rules to use.
- **Khaize**: I have no preferences.
- **Leonardo**: Ok thanks. Ideally, in the future, we'll also introduce GitHub status checks that will notify the contributors about wrong or missing format. This checks will be implemented as Prow external plugins soon (see issue [test-infra#47](https://github.com/falcosecurity/test-infra/issues/47)).


Continuous integration (Jenkins X + Prow)

- **Leonardo**: Also, I want to tell you that we are talking with the CNCF about improving the way we continuously test Falco. After some discussion with them we reached an agreement on our proposal to use Jenkins X, integrating it with the existing and running Prow cluster. We also asked us to evaluate a contribution as mantainers of a CNCF project to Prow in order to add to it the support for storing blobs on AWS S3. We are evaluating the effort about this contribution internally but we are very positive and excited about this opportunity!
- **Marky**: On this subject I'm continuing to talk with Luc Perkins privately to coordinate this task.
- **Lorenzo**: Thanks Marky!

CNCF Technical Due Diligence

- **Leonardo**: As a recap, for the due diligence of Falco we need to achieve some targets.

  1. 3 production use cases
  2. an healthy number of committers from various companies
  3. substantial ongoing flow of commits and merged contributions
  I want you all to know too that the CNCF graduation criterias include a technical due diligence too. You can find it at [this URL](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/master/process/due-diligence-guidelines.md#technical).
  We opened a bunch of issues to track those CNCF requirements, you can find them filtering by ["cncf/incubation" label](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3Acncf%2Fincubation) on GitHub.

  To summarize, we need:
  1. architectural documentation
  2. clearly state (explicitly testing them) the performance, resource consumption, scalability bounds
  3. document the performance, scalability, complexity, reliability, security trade-offs made, and whether they are tunable by the user or not
  4. clearly state the failure modes (also testing them in the CI)
  5. coding guidelines, tools for enforcing them during PR reviews, in order to reach a good code quality (we are actively working on this right now as said)
  6. review of external deps and their justification
  7. reach adequacy of automated testing (unit, integration, e2e) in use (working on this right now, and Marky will help us with infrastructure setup for it)
  8. measuring code coverage and establish a minimum metric (working soon on this too!)

- **Lorenzo**: Yes, I confirm everything Leo just said. We are on good track but still a lot of efforts to do. Would love to see some help from you all folks!


[kubernetes/enhancements#5](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5#issuecomment-503657710): Deprecating PSP?

- **Leonardo**: I want to bring to your attention a discussion by the Kubernetes folks about the future of PSP. They are talking about deprecating such feature. Or, at least, putting it not in Kubernetes itself.
- **Khaize**: Yes, I saw that discussion. About this topic I'd like to propose to factor out the Falco's PSP part in a separate module able to behave like an external service/plugin.
- **Leonardo**: Ok! It seems a good path following also what's going to happen in Kubernetes about PSPs. Could you please open an issue about it?
- **Khaize**: Yes, I'll open one! ([falco#707](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/707))

Falco talk at KubeCon China

- **Khaize**: I want to tell you folks that I gave a talk about Falco past week at KubeCon China in Bejiing! What I noticed is that people is not ready for the container runtime security matter, yet. It seems to me that they look at Falco more as a tool to improve to CI/CD pipelines...
- **Leonardo**: Uhmm, thanks for reporting this Khaize.

Localization of Falco docs into Chinese - 嗨朋友们

- **Lorenzo**: Kaizhe, since you know Chineese and you've just met the K8s community in China, do you think
we should localize the Falco docs in Chineese to let our friends there understand better the project?
- **Khaize**: I agree, having the docs in Chinese would be a great improvement
- **Leonardo**: Which Chinese? You know, many dialects
- **Khaize**: Simplified Chinese is the way to go
- **Lorenzo**: Ok great, we will open an issue on it ([falco-website#43](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/issues/43)).

Rules override

Andy and Nataly, from Shopify, have joined late to ask questions about how the rules ovverride works.

- **Andy**: One of the things we originally did was …
We didn't like to original rules for our use cases so right now we are thinking about approaching this overriding rules. We want a placeholder for user macros, the other option would be to do some carfefull dancing so that the loader can make sure they load before falco but then that could create conflicts.
Do we have a potential way to solve it, but I'm curious if you have any guidance about the best way to do this!
- **Khaize**: I've noticed that every time the custom YAML file is loaded the default one is overriden, that should solve the problem of the conflict but we decided to do in that way but I'm not sure if that would be an answer or not.
- **Andy**: I think that user defined macros are a great feature, I’m not sure that it will fix the loading problem we had.
- **Khaize**: If there's a name conflict between the custom file it always takes the precedence, basically if you override yours win. That's why we put a placeholder in the custom one, that should solve the problem?
- **Andy**: all right, I think we can give it a go, is you recommendation that we should redefine those placeholder macros in the upstream rules file?
- **Khaize**:  [screen sharing] we had the `user_known_write_below_root_activities` macros, used by the write below root,
that means that whatever user want to have their own whitelist can just copy paste the macro part to the custom file and modify the condition context
so that when the Falco custom file or default file get loaded the one from the custom file always take effect so whatever the rule below root get evaluated you define the custom file not the raw one.
- **Andy**: that makes sense, but what defines the ordering? The order with which the config file was passed to the falco binary as parameter?
- **Khaize**: I think that the falco rule is always the last one to get evaluated, so all the rules will be loaded and then falco re-evaluates the priority.
- **Leonardo**: Since this topic seems to not be clear at all I ask you some time so that me and Lorenzo can investigate it. Please open an issue about it with a reproducible example. Once investigated we'll reply and soon write a documentation about how the rules and macro override works. Thanks for bringing this up by the way!

Issue is [falco#706](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/706).

Running Falco on GKE

- **Andy**: I have another question. When running Falco on GKE we noticed that sometimes container ID is missing. Same thing for file descriptor name. We have some null fields.
- **Lorenzo**: Which input driver are you using?
- **Andy**: We are using eBPF driver.
- **Leonardo**: We are not sure what causes this. Also because we are waiting for a test GKE environments where we could be able to reproduce such situations. Anyway we have suspects right now about some part of the Falco's code base - namely, the token bucket class - which is responsible of the rate limiting of inputs and outputs. Recently we have spent some time debugging and refactoring it since it gets a time in input without an internal guard. Since the delta between this time (the time of the current event) and the last seen time can become negative making the grow rate of the tocken bucket negative, this could cause serious troubles in the dropping mechanism.
- **Lorenzo**: Anyway we'll soon have a GKE to play with Falco about this issues. Can I ask you to provide us a SCAP file so to reproduce your bugs?
- **Marky**: Yes, please open an issue also about it.