# Falco Office hours - Meeting 11th July 2019

**MC:** Michael Ducy 

**Who joined**:

- Michael Ducy ([@mfdii](https://github.com/mfdii))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- Kaizhe Huang ([@kaizhe](https://github.com/kaizhe))
- Marky Jackson ([@markyjackson-taulia](https://github.com/markyjackson-taulia))
- Mark Stemm ([@mstemm](https://github.com/mstemm))
- Nestor Salceda([@nestorsalceda](https://github.com/nestorsalceda))
- Robin Price
- Eric Lugo

## This week's Highlights

- Recap of previous office hours
  - Chinese translation for docs
  - Macro expansion issue ([falco#706](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/706))
  - PodSecurityPolicies being deprecated
  - CNCF TOC Due diligence 
  - JenkinsX and Prow
- Helm Chart not Supporting Kubernetes Audit Events
  - Nestor will work on.
- Kubecon NA Submissions due coming Friday.
  - Two end users workinng on talks
 
## Proposals/Issues

[office-hours#24](https://github.com/falcosecurity/office-hours/issues/24): Rule parsing errors ([falco#706](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/706))
- **Lorenzo:** Last office hours was a productive meeting. Covering this issue again because it was 4th of July for the US Office. User reporting this issue of macro's not performing as expected when overriding. 
- **Mark:** This should be an easy fix. Falco internally keeps an array of all the objects as they appear in the files it loads rules from. It you override an object it replaces that object where it originally appeared in the array. So you couldn't use a macro that is defined after the original object.
- **Lorenzo:** If you go down to this file, one of the last comments, we did a dump of the AST, based on the files, and we saw the array that you were talking about, and we see that the test macro is not there. But we didn't think of a fix.
- **Leo:** Also Mark, maybe it's a thought to think about how the abstract syntax of the rules is made. Currently we grab rules from the files and there is a lexicographical order. Maybe we could think to do something like a lazy evaluator that evaluates all the macros after we have loaded the rules. 
- **Mark:** I'm not totally opposed to that, there are some cases where like if you had multiple overrides how would you know which one to use, or things like append....   
- **Lorenzo:** ...I think Mark what people expect from the comment I read is that the order which files is expected, is how things is override. Say the second file overrides the first file.
- **Mark:** Unless I'm wrong, the problem in this case, in the overridden macro, and it's not really about the order of the files, I mean it's the files but also the objects that make up each file.
- **Lorenzo:** Yeah but what happened in the AST dump is that the second file's defined macros were not included at all in the AST, so the bug is probably also in the order in which the files are presented to the falco engine.
- **Mark:** Looking at the AST may not be sufficient depending when you looked at it. We generate an AST, load everything, then expand macro references in the AST. But I'm pretty sure in this case the override referred to a macro...
- **Lorenzo:** I'm sorry the AST is not for an override. It's a bit different, you should read the discussion. There's been a bunch of strange things that happen...
- **Mark:** Ahh, I mean falco_rules.local.yaml has a macro that's called allowed_clear_log_files and that macro is also in falco_rules.yaml, so that macro is being overriden.
- **Leo:** And there's a problem with the condition of the macro, while overriding, the user was also overriding the condition of the macro, with a second macro defined in the second file and that one was not found.
- **Mark:** Yeah, and the reason for that is the second definition puts it the array where it was originally found, in this case second, no third. And because it's third, it doesn't know about test macro, and that's why it can't validate.
- **Lorenzo:** Just to write this in stone, Michael if you can go up, there's the allowed_clear_log_files macro and you can see it's referencing test_macro, but if you scroll down and look at the AST you can see it's not present at all. So I don't know. I would have expected it to be there even if it's at the end of the AST.
- **Mark:** Macro references are not expanded when the AST is evaluated, there's a specific step for that. So when you dump the AST you have to be careful to know if you're dumping the AST when it's first compiled, or after all the macros are expanded. 
- **Lorenzo:** We looked at that and we expanded that to the last stage. As for our unnderstanding.
- **Mark:** Right, and I'm pretty sure that the reason that that didn't work, is basically it's using position 3 when it expands the macros. 
- **Lorenzo:** Ok, umm, do you agree this is a bug.
- **Mark:** Yes I agree it's a bug, but it's not straight forward because the order is important for other reasons such as append, because you might need to change the order in relation to append. 
- **Michael:** Ok, so it's a bug so we need to figure out how we prioritize this in relation to everything else as it's a problem that's effecting a production user. This might be a good thing for you to pair on. 

[falco#716](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/716): 
- **Michael:** This is frame.io, I don't think it's GKE.
- **Mark:** They are ECS, and I have been working with them on this. My working theory is that Falco is not communicating with the container runtime. Because with ECS you have to provide the docker command line and if you don't provide all the mounts to the container it won't be able to communicate with the runtime and then we get no container metadata.
- **Michael:** They are also using ECS, so maybe it's an ECS oddity. Now that I'm back [from vacation] I can try and get on a call and get specifics from them.

[office-hours#23](https://github.com/falcosecurity/office-hours/issues/23): Discuss the rule engine versioning
- **Mark:** I can definately talk about the rule versioning. The background is for a long time we had no versioning. What would happen is that someone would add a new field in sysdig, and someone would use it in Falco. And then older versions of the commercial agent would try and read this new rules file with a field that it doesn't know about and it would choke on it because it doesn't know what to do with it. So we came up with the current versioning that has two parts. First, the Falco rules engine itself is versioned and the idea is that anytime new fields are added, you bump the version. That's the build step that fails if there's new fields that haven't been address. So if you're ever building and see that, you need to update the checksum and bump the version.
- **Lorenzo:** I don't think that from time to time that field has been updated religiously. Like new fields are added and it's not getting bumped and it's causing problems for people. The second thing is, that the proposal here is about documenting it, and generating documentation automatically when new fields are added. And the other thing is, I don't get why we have a different version of the rules, when we release a new version, those rules and engine all go together. With those things they;re already versioned and it's going to be easy to maintain.
- **Mark:** So to talk about each of those issues. I can write a developer oriented guide that talks about how to handle versioning properly. All of the Falco fields are available via the `--list` option. We do not version the individual fields, it would be awesome, but it's too much work to do that. For the third thing, what I was going to describe, the rules themselves should refer to a particular engine version when you add a new field that is actually new. This is unfortunately ambiguous because you don't really know when you add a new field to a rule whether it is actually new or if it already existed. The only way to do that right now is to go through git commit history. 
- **Leo:** There's a current pull request to fix the Kubernetes liveness probes and he's having problems with the rules version. 
- **Mark:** I know what the PR is, He should set it to the current Falco engine version. I'm not sure if it's 4 or 5. 
- **Leo:** I commented and said it should be version 4 but I'm not sure. 
- **Mark:** Yeah version 4 is fine.
- **Lorenzo:** What confuses me is Mark, lets say you have a whole falco rules yaml with a single rule that requires version 4, and a rules file that has a bunch of rules that require version 1.
- **Mark:** Yes, it's the minimum version number of the engine required.
- **Lorenzo:** What I was trying to say before, is yes we have the list, it would be cool to know when a new thing is introduced. So I can know if I can use version 2 or version 4.
- **Mark:** Without trolling git history, you need to do the thinng I was mentioning which is individually tie each field to the falco version it was introduced. And that's a ton of work and I don't know how to keep it up to date.
- **Leo:** My idea originally was not to do this manually, but maybe we can create some side software or side tool and they can look at the rules history, and correlate them to the falco version.
- **Mark:** That would be a good way to implement the really hard thing to implement.

[office-hours#16](https://github.com/falcosecurity/office-hours/issues/16): Coding style conventions

**Leo:** I wanted to ask other people about the coding styles, right now we are using several coding styles but they are just the minimum set just to setup the style checker, but they are not really enforcing anything. There is also not a process of adding anything. So maybe some of you have a preference to which coding style we use.
**Michael:** There is the style guidelines on the Sysdig repo.
**Leo:** Yes, we use that, but that's the C++ kernel coding style. 
**Michael:** So it's not going far enough?
**Leo:** That's right, I'm not sure for userspace C++ it goes far enough. I'm not sure, this is my personal opinion.
**Michael:** I was just making sure that you had seen that.
**Leo:** Since we don't want to change all the code base in a PR, we will create prow job that on a PR check for style. So eventually we will match the future coding style on all new PRs and some code will get refactored as needed. 
