# Falco Office hours - Meeting 6th June 2020

**MC:** Leonardo Di Donato

**Who joined**:

- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- Mark Stemm ([@mstemm](https://github.com/mstemm))
- Kaizhe Huang ([@kaizhe](https://github.com/kaizhe))
- Knox Anderson ([@knoxanderson](https://github.com/KnoxAnderson))
- Arístides González ([@ariguillegp](https://github.com/ariguillegp))

This was the third official Office Hours meeting!

## Proposals

**Leonardo**: Not a lot of proposals in the office hours repo this week, but there's a thing I proposed days ago, you can find it in the office hours issues list, issue number #9.

[office-hours#9](https://github.com/falcosecurity/office-hours/issues/9):
Declarative management of org settings, teams, and memberships.


- **Leonardo**: I'd like to automate organizations settings, teams and memberships too. Similarly to what made on labels/PR workflows side. There is a tool, [peribolos](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/cmd/peribolos/README.md), that other cloud native projects (like Kubernetes) are already using.
This tool allows to define the teams, privileges of the people in a declarative way. It works with Prow. This is something in my opinion we need to do to reorganize all the roles we have in the organization and having them publicly managed and visible.
Leonardo asks people to contribute thoughts or concerns about the matter.
- **Mark**: I'm not so sure we are at that kind of scale yet but it's ok.
- **Lorenzo**: I've been noticing that a lot of the automation things we've being doing have made repos better. Imho machine users should do these kind of tasks, not human users manually. Also because human users are very error-prone. So to me it'll be useful. Also such thing improves the transparency level of falco organization.
- **Leonardo**: Exactly, this is what I personally care most of. I'm glad you caught it. In this way we we'll need to add someone to the repo, give him write privileges, there will be a public PR and everyone can see why we are adding it or not, what's the goal. It's all tracked down and transparent. There are not things happening behind the scenes, that people outside cannot understand. They'll look at the PR ...
- **Knox**: I'll forward to Khaize on this one.
- **Khaize**: I think this will be very helpful only in a scenario when Falco will have groups of heavy contributors from outside. So maybe it's a little bit early for this?
- **Leonardo**: Ok, I understand your point. I personally do not think it's too early because the Falco organization already contains other repos with different scenarios and users. I'm thinking to the documentation part in the falco website repository, for example. Other repositories' contributions (and contributors) are going to grow in a different way than Falco ones. And I think we need a way to track down the memberships in public.
- **Khaize**: Let me ask another question. What's the overhead of this? What's the overhead for existing Falco contributors if you apply this?
- **Leonardo**: There is no overhead. It's not a huge effort. It's simple a tool that reads a YAML file and call GitHub APIs. Once written only PRs towards it will change it (and consequently) organization settings, memberships, permissions etc.
- **Lorenzo**: I think that this in reality removes overhead from people. As code changes also this file will have owners. A PR with reviewers will be issued and case by case they will evaluate. But I might be wrong!


[falco#673](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/673):
Cmake improvements for building Falco from source on various linux environments.

- **Leonardo**: Ok, I also propose to shift the discussion to the Cmake improvements we are trying to achieve this week, to make Falco easier to build from source on ArchLinux, other linux environments, newer kernels, etc.
We pushed a PR containing some fixes needed for the most modern environments and so have you guys had a look at this?
It's not a huge PR. I can show you my screen.
Basically building Falco from source on newer kernels we (me and @fntlnz) found there were some issues. Namely with libcurl and its flags. And also with flags to make grpc cpp plugin compile. We almost reached the point where it build without troubles .. We need to do some last testing, but ok.
We also needed this because me and @fntlnz started rewriting and reorganizing the documentation we have on the Falco website about building Falco from source.. [falco-website#28](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/28) is the ongoing PR. Let's have a look at its preview… I feel this is needed since maybe there are people that want to build Falco from source for developing on it, contribute or just try it, test it locally.
Leonardo welcomes Aristides.
- **Aristides**: Thank you thank you very much!
- **Mark**: The Cmake PR changes are all fine to me.
- **Lorenzo**: That's want we wanted to know!
- **Makr**: You know, that kind of stuff is very welcome!
- **Knox**: No suggestions yet since I hadn't reviewed it yet.
- **Khaize**: It's ok. Looks cute to me.
- **Leonardo**: Do you want to present yourself? Propose something or say something about it maybe?
- **Aristides**: I read the Falco documentation recently and I was wondering why it does not include Alpine Linux. Is because of the C libraries?
- **Lorenzo**: No is because we didn't think about it yet! Could you open an issue about it?
- **Leonardo**: Thanks for pointing it out. Yes please open an issue to remind it to us!
- **Khaize**: Guys I have a question. Who has tested all this instructions and environments we have in the documentation?
- **Lorenzo**: We tested in all the written down environments. Was kind of hard … We also proposed a change to Sysdig but last minute we noticed that change would requires a compile time directive to have it working everywhere (and we are going to do it soon, maybe through a autotools and/or a pre-directive that populates a Cmake variable). We then made changes to the Cmake files according to this.
But yeah, building on all those environments have been tested. Of course we did not tried every possible Ubuntu, or Fedora etc.
- **Leonardo**: The PR that Lorenzo is talking about is [sysdig#1441](https://github.com/draios/sysdig/pull/1441)
- **Lorenzo**: I'd like to highlight that Mark has made 2 releases this week!

[changelog 0.15.3](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v0153),
[changelog 0.15.2](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v0152):
Recap about the patch releases made in the last week.


- **Lorenzo**: So we had a bug in compiling for older kernels and that have been fixed in Sysdig. There was also a bug in compiling for Container Optimised OS (GKE).
The other thing is that a lot of people are opening issues about dropped events. We are trying to understand why this happen and if anyone has insights about it ...
- **Mark**: I think the kind of things with drops have been incurring all of the time but now it's just more visible because of the alerts. I'm really hoping for the performances optimizations …
I'd encourage people reporting to report more information about the environments they are using, so we can also understand if they are using at least Falco version 0.15.1.
- **Lorenzo**: We now have an issue templates that's very clear about it!
- **Mark**: And in the new reporting issues that were reported the people are using the template?
- **Lorenzo**: Yes!
- **Leonardo**: Yep, but there are older issues (like falco#615) before the template were we still do not have info about the environments, but we asked for them ...
Ok, I think it's all. Has anyone other things to bring up attention? Also this third office hours has come to an end. Thank everyone for joining! Bye folks, see you next week!




