# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FwkcvQqbknw)

## 2020-09-23

### MC

- Spencer Krum ([nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))

### Who joined


- Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Radu Andries ([@admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0))
- Mattia Meleleo ([@mmat11](https://github.com/mmat11))
- Loris Degioanni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- 


### This week highlights

- 

### Agenda

- [nibz] Mentee Projects Through [cncf](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2020/09/21/calling-all-mentees-cncf-communitybridge-projects-for-the-fall-2020-program/)
    - Lets document some potential projects for next time
    - Document in Evolution Repo
        - Issue in evolution repo for "the project"
    - DO September opportunity
    - Lets open/label good-first-issues
        - [Leo] Use /good-first-issue and /remove-good-first-issue poiana commands if you want
    - TODO: blog article on falco.org around good-first-issue/internl project (nova)
- [Nova] Release team for 0.26.0
    - Did not go out, there was a showstopper bug
    - Will release thursday 9/23, discuss on #setns
- [Lore] Infra Team / Meeting
    - [Lore] meeting taking place tomorrow - [mailing list message](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-dev/topic/falco_infra_working_group/76911169?p=,,,20,0,0,0::recentpostdate%2Fsticky,,,20,2,0,76911169)
    - [Nova] Tekton?
    - [Leo/Lore] Talked with CNCF - Will update the community today and during tomorrow's meeting
- [Lore/Leo] CII best practices score is now 92% - Static code analysis and addressing warning falgs are the missing topic to go 100%
    - [link](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/projects/2317)
- [Lore/Leo] PDIG static build (https://github.com/falcosecurity/pdig/pull/19/files)
    - Release pipeline? How? Who does it? Who handles it?
    - More context into https://github.com/falcosecurity/pdig/issues/16
- [Lore] Videos on the website (https://falco.org/videos)
    - Config here: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/blob/master/config.yaml#L48
- [Leo/Matt] Python client for gRPC Falco outputs API updated to the recent improvements and changes to the API (https://github.com/falcosecurity/client-py/pull/41
    - Account for publishing to PyPi?
    - https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-maintainers/topics
    - TODO: nova/spencer build pointer system for maintainers
- [Leo] Gonna present Falco to RomHack this Sunday ([agenda](https://www.romhack.io/speakers-2020.html#didonato))
    - First in person conference after soooo long, exciting and scaring at the same time!
- [Nova] Automation for calls
    - Can we just use a doc for notes instead of PRs?
        - TODO: nibz will attempt to link hackmd and github
    - Is there a way to share the zoom archive?
        - TODO: nibz/nova will look at linking youtube and zoom for automatic uploads
        - TODO: update docs after ^^
    - Documentation: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/360028478292-Streaming-a-Meeting-or-Webinar-on-YouTube-Live
### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 
    - Leo Grasso 30/9/2020
- **Next Release**: 
    - 0.26.0 -> 24/9/2020

