# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://sysdig.zoom.us/my/falco)
[Recording](https://youtu.be/h2wVxO_-IyU)

## 2020-03-11

### MC

 - Spencer Krum

### Who joined

- Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Salvatore Mazzarino ([@mazzy89](https://github.com/mazzy89))
- Kris NÃ³va ([@kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- Loris Degioannni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))
- Salvatore Pappalardo ([@xantrix](https://github.com/xantrix))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@issif](https://github.com/issif))
- Grzegorz Nosek ([@gnosek](https://github.com/gnosek))

### This week highlights

 - driverkit hitting a usable state (ebpf probes + kernel modules)
 - release process that integrates driverkit is very very close
 
 
### Agenda

 - [Nova] Follow up on 1.0 release date (we mentioned a doodle)
     - Update on KubeCon and 1.0
         - Kubecon postponed to July/August-ish
     - Monthly release cadence, we need to assign owners for each
     - AB-BC-CD-DE system (similar to kubecon program chairs, pair experienced with new person)
     - Kris + Leo to be the first 2
     - friday new release?
         - Nova/Leo record process and try for Friday
 - [Nova] Update on the Hubs call next Monday
     - [message to cncf-toc list](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-toc/message/4305)
     - https://securityhub.dev/
     - https://hub.cncf.io/
 - [Nova] Update on live streams
     - https://github.com/falcosecurity/community/tree/master/live-streams
     - Spencer goes live regularly, sometimes features falco https://twitch.tv/ibmdeveloper 
     - collab with other streamers?
         - #twitch-streaming on [devrelcollective.slack.com](https://devrelcollective.fun/)
 - [Nova] New BPF project
     - owned by falco
     - new wg
 - Update on new build & release workflow
    - release workflow
    - driverkit
    - slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LqeWkDgALdk6tCEEs2oqVd_ErV3Kb2Lxwm5EyVAwWCw/edit?usp=sharing
 - [Spencer] Official meeting time UTC 3pm
     - cncf lists (groups.io) calendar isn't working well
     - proposal: document the time of the meeting in UTC, expect contributors to manage their own calendars
         - automatic reminders on slack/list
         - (this gets better on cncf slack)
     - kris to do (thanks!)


### Closing

 - **MC Next Call**: 
     - Grasso
 - **Build/Infra/Release Call**: 