## Falco Community Call

### MC

Leonardo Di Donato

### Who joined

- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/leodido))
- Kris Nova ([@kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova))
- Marky Jackson ([@markyjackson](https://github.com/markyjackson-taulia))
- Aristides Gonzalez ([@agglezpol1541](https://github.com/ariguillegp))
- Ayush Priya ([@ayushpriya10](https://github.com/ayushpriya10))
- sunil botre[@sunil1783](https://github.com/sunil1783)
- Amit Shirodkar ([@shirodkara] (https://github.com/shirodkara))
- Barak Stout ([@barakstout](https://github.com/BarakStout))
- Deepak ([@deepakprasanna](https://github.com/deepakprasanna/))
- Frank Reno ([@frankreno](https://github.com/frankreno))
- Vikash ([@Vikash082](https://github.com/Vikash082))
- Yusuf K [@kanchwala-yusuf](https://github.com/kanchwala-yusuf)
- Michael Ducy ([@mfdii](https://github.com/mfdii))
- Chris Kranz ([@KranzSysdig](https://github.com/KranzSysdig))
- Pierre Lacerte ([@palacerte](https://github.com/ephemeral))
- Shubhendu Poothia ([@poothia](https://github.com/poothia))
- Zachary Estrella ([@zestrells](https://github.com/zestrells))
- Bharath Thiruveedula ([@bharaththiruveedula](https://github.com/bharaththiruveedula))
- Nestor Salceda ([@nestorsalceda](https://github.com/nestorsalceda))
- Frederick Kautz ([@ffkiv](https://GitHub.com/fkautz))



### This week highlights

- New contributor call was exciting -- [Follow up](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-dev/topic/update_from_new_contributor/69964948)
    - Link to the video[Falco New Contributor Call 001](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ueBRvu_SR0k)
- Dynamic Builds
- Release 0.19.0
    - Nova to send off email to mailing list about starting a working group

### Agenda

- [Leo] [Lorenzo] Dynamic builds ([968](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/968))
    - Lorenzo and Leonardo completed it
        - Explain it
        - USE_BUNDLED_DEPS
        - falco-tester now uses fedora:31 as base image
        - falco-builder (centos:7) revamped
- [Leo] [Lorenzo] CircleCI
    - Timing gains
    - Re-enabled poiana auto-merge attaching it to CircleCI github checks
    - Increased required reviewers to 2 (only for falco repo)
    - CircleCI creates artifacts (DEB/TAR.GZ/RPM packages) for easy testing/using: https://circleci.com/gh/falcosecurity/falco/146#artifacts/containers/0
    - [Lore] We have `dev` and `master` branches. We also have prow for github automation. We are looking for an owner for build infrastructure. Any volunteers here?
- [Sunil] ppc64le support
    - Issue [community#66](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community/issues/66) and [falco#982](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/982)
    - Do we want to support other platforms? (PR [falco#932](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/932) by @sunil1783)
    - Problem with falco-tester
    - [Sunil] There are some docker files that currently exist that are having issues with older GCC versions
    - Currently using Linux 4.15.* on Host
    - [Lore] Please use GCC7
    - [Sunil] We can build and test on the host, but not in the docker container
    - [Lore] Signed up to create new Dockerfile for powerPC
- [Mark Stemm] Event generator
    - Mark Stemm pushed a new improved version
    - k8s audit events added to falco-event-generator ([falco#997](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/997))
- [Mark Stemm] Stackdriver webhook bridge
    - https://github.com/sysdiglabs/stackdriver-webhook-bridge
    - https://hub.docker.com/u/sysdiglabs/
- Maintenance of the Falco Helm
    - @cpanato volunteering
    - Need to coordinate with Nestor Salceda
    - https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/falco
    - Rename from Sysdig Falco to Falco
    - Follow Falco releases - eg, 0.19.0
    - Support Helm 3
- [Leo] [Lorenzo] The state of the release 0.19.0
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1007
    - Write to mailing list
    - Notify marketing
    - Blog post?
- [Leo] A look into the release 1.0.0
    - Mini tour on how to we plan releases
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/3
    - Where we are
    - What it will contain:
    - [Falco 1.0.0 Slide Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LqokBheEHvh4f8jk1TXd5OkyMmRnOxNkcf22ihT1BsI/edit#slide=id.g6b368436fc_2_81)
- [Kris] Cutover to CNCF slack ([community#64](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community/issues/64))
    - Who is in charge?
    - Someone volunteering/helping Kris?
    - One channel only?
        - What about other falcosecurity tools (eg., falcoctl, client-go)? Where we'll discuss them?
    - Plan is to have ONE source of truth, mirroring messages then!
- [Kris] Infrastructure update
    - Yesterday on the new contributor call we mentioned starting a new working group for build and release
    - Stay tuned for the build/release group!
    - Public bucket for packages
- [Kris] Would like to submit a PR to community that updates how we are managing our calls (Wed calls, Triage, Build, New contributors, Planning)
- [Kris] Update on Falcoctl - [Added README.md](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/pull/58) - [Added good first issues](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)
- [Kris] Sig-security assesment
    - Update? Anyone interested in getting involved?
    - [Ducy] https://github.com/cncf/sig-security/issues/273
- [Kris] Copied over from other HackMD doc for today:
     - Sumo Logic impacted
        - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/896
        - https://github.com/draios/sysdig/pull/1552
            - [Ducy] Follow up with Sysdig about getting this merged
            - [Nova] Add this to the infrastructure call
        - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/860#issuecomment-575087263
    - [Lore] OpenSSL dynamically linked and civetweb expects it in a certain location
        - [Lore] Feels like this is now solved
        - [Leo] Document this for now
- [Lore] CircleCI
    - CircleCI is now publishing rpm, deb packages for testing on their local system
    - Click on details, log in to CircleCI, then you can download packages for a specific PR