# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://sysdig.zoom.us/my/falco)
[Recording](https://)

## 2020-02-19

### MC

- Leonardo Di Donato

### Who joined

- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- Kris Nova
- Shane Lawrence
- James Alseth ([@jalseth](https://github.com/jalseth))
- Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@issif](https://github.com/issif))
- Natch Ruengsakulrach ([@natchaphon-r](https://github.com/natchaphon-r))
- Vikash ([@Vikash082](https://github.com/Vikash082))

### This week highlights

- Release 0.20.0 tomorrow
- Build service in the making
- gRPC inputs API in the making
- Kubernetes Podcast interviewed Leo featuring Falco, among other things ([link](https://kubernetespodcast.com/episode/091-ebpf-and-falco/))

### Agenda

- [Leo] Poiana on [katacoda](https://github.com/falcosecurity/katacoda-scenarios)
    - We need a PR proposing an OWNERS file!
    - This is about governance, ownership
- [Leo] Discussion about the status of fixes for k8s >= 1.16
    - [PR 1005](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1005)
    - [PR 1044](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1044)
    - Split by k8s version/API?
        - [Kris] Start to support different versions
        - [Leo] Agree, do also for examples in the falco repo
- [Natch] Question about the Falco helm chart?
    - Is still something that Falco authors support?
    - https://github.com/helm/charts See deprecation timeline
    - [Kris] Make sure we have a helm3 Falco chart
    - [Leo] We'd like to have external contributors maintaining it
    - [Thomas] Brings up kustomize, etc.
    - [Kris] todo: to propose a new repo to hold all community supported installers
- [Leo] Do we want acceptance tests for Falco rules?
    - Vicente claims to have them in place, ready to be contributed, see [issue 1047](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1047)
    - In which repo do we want them to live in?
    - [Kris] - vicente has a set of scripts and scap files to verify/integration test (it's in bash, but it works)
    - [Leo] falco repo already embeds a suite of integration tests in python, with same pattern, tests of rules with provided .scap
    - [Leo] will follow up with Vicente to get a braindump
- [Lorenzo] Bring back synchronous container metadata to fix #925 until we have the input API ?
    - We need to make a decision on this: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/925
    - [Shane] - this would be good for my company
    - [Lorenzo] - will do it
    - [Kris] - lets get some data on what sort of latency this will cause (user data)
- [Leo] CI for client-py
    - [PR 28](https://github.com/falcosecurity/client-py/pull/28) by Mattia, merged in by mistake
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/client-py/issues/30
    - GitHub Actions setup GitHub checks, so we could use them for Prow. Anyway we should discuss whether we want to use different CIs on the Falco Projects, or not.
    - [Leo/Lorenzo] - we need to have consistent ci, one system accross all projects. If a maintainer needs to step away from the project, having consistency will be critical for ongoing maintenance.
    - [Leo] talk with Mattia to switch to CircleCI
- [Nova] Can we remove the wiki
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/838
    - Deleted the wiki! :boom:
- [Lorenzo] Updates on the falco build service
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/build-service
    - Demo
    - [Lorenzo] - gave a demo
- [Lorenzo][Leo] Brief overview of what's into release 0.20.0
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1048
    - BPF_PROBE variable fix: now FALCO_BPF_PROBE, soon to be merged in (will be in 0.20.0)
    - Memory leak fix
    - Falco version API
- [Leo] Principal Architect at AWS proposes Cloudwatch Logs as input for Falco
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1051
- [Leo] Spencer is writing a blog post about Falco
    - Update on Spencer's talk
    - Demo on falco with IBM cloud
    - https://devnexus.com/presentations/4755/
- [Nova] Preeti had question about audit
    - Link to blog post on installing audit
    - Review the k8s doc blog post about auditing with Falco (https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/falco/)
    - Link to issue
    - [Natch] I used https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/falco and did not encounter issue. Will need to start apiserver with specific flags (see falco doc)

### Closing

 - **MC Next Call**: Kris Nova
 - **Build/Infra/Release Call**: Leonardo Di Donato