# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject) 
[Recording]()

## 2020-05-06

### MC

- Leonardo Grasso

### Who joined

- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Kris Nóva ([@kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Grzegorz Nosek ([@gnosek](https://github.com/gnosek))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
- Néstor Salceda ([@nestorsalceda](https://github.com/nestorsalceda))
- Armin Coralic ([@arminc](https://github.com/arminc))
- Loris Degioanni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))
- Mahesh Veerabathiran ([@maheshvra](https://github.com/maheshvra))
- Dev L ([@deleisha](https://github.com/deleisha)) 

### This week highlights

- https://github.com/falcosecurity/contrib
- Special thanks
    - [maxgio92] [contrib#8](https://github.com/falcosecurity/contrib/pull/8) [contrib#9](https://github.com/falcosecurity/contrib/pull/9) 
    - [spencer] [event-generator#27](https://github.com/falcosecurity/event-generator/pull/27)
- [leodido,fntlnz,nathan-b] Fix drivers build on kernels < 3.17
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1190
    - https://github.com/draios/sysdig/pull/1624
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/test-infra/pull/124

### Agenda

- [Kris] Zoom calls, running a call, PR to community? 
- [Kris] artifacts scope and proposal [falco#1184](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1184)
    - [Part 1](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/08b8e227486b87182656e2fc6ead0fc3cef298b6/proposals/20200506-artifacts-scope-part-1.md)
    - [Part 2](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/08b8e227486b87182656e2fc6ead0fc3cef298b6/proposals/20200506-artifacts-scope-part-2.md)
    - Kris explains the idea of installing Falco besides the kubelet
- [leogr] New container image "driverloader"
    - PR merged [falco#1172](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1172)
    - to be renamed to `falcosecurity/falco-driver-loader` as per the above proposal
    - [Nova] revisit the name of `falco-driver-loader`
- [Grzegorz] pdig

```
# Container 1
pdig ./myapp --flag=true &
falco -u --pidfile /var/run/falco.pid --daemon -c /etc/falco/falco.yaml
```

- [Nova] ftrace, ografa, etc
    - [Greg] please reconsider the ftrace name :) https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/trace/ftrace.txt
    - Nóva's keynote
    - [Nova] rename to `futex` from `ftrace`

- [Nova] Falco on ARM update
    - Read the [blog](https://www.nivenly.com/category/k8s/)
- [Nova] Kubernetes update
- [arminc] initcointainer + slim/minimal falco on helm
    - https://github.com/helm/charts/issues/22268
- [leodido,fntlnz] working on a low overhead profiler for Falco
    - goals
        - measure Falco dynamic behavior
        - performance issues
        - which parts of Falco require the most time
        - flamegraphs, pprof
    - rdtsc (assembly instruction)
   
### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Spencer
- **Next Release**: Kris/Grasso - May 18th