# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording](https://)

## 2020-12-16

### MC

- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)


### Who joined

- Leonardo Di Donato [@leodido](https://github.com/leodido)
- Loris Degioanni [@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio)
- Néstor Salceda [@nestorsalceda](https://github.com/nestorsalceda) 
- Jonah Jones [@jonahjon](https://github.com/jonahjon)
- Stefan Uygur [@ostendali](https://github.com/ostendali)
- Daniele Di Vito [@danieledivito](https://github.com/danieledivito)
- Lorenzo Fontana [@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz)

### This week highlights

- Last community meeting of this year!
    - Next community call scheduled on 2021-01-13
- Falco Website/Docs WG => [updates here](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-dev/message/212)
    - Thanks to Lorenzo, Leo Di Donato, Leonardo Grasso, Rajie, Chris Kranz


### Agenda

- [leodido] fine-tuning of meta github links in the new website ([commit](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/324/commits/39436d67fa4e47b81a8b3cc01cc3e3f2388e7c5d))
- [leodido] working on a ProwJob to automatically fetch and update all ours maintainers by reading all OWNERS files in all the falcosecurity repositories
    - generator tool [here](https://github.com/leodido/maintainers-generator)
- [leodido/jonah] Driver version [5c0b863](https://download.falco.org/?prefix=driver/5c0b863ddade7a45568c0ac97d037422c9efb750/) ready
    - For Falco version 0.27 (january)
    - Other drivers are coming thanks to another [PR](https://github.com/falcosecurity/test-infra/pull/256) by Lore
- [fntlnz/leodido] We need slack channels for working groups!
    - Falco Infra
    - Falco Website/Docs
    - It seems we can't have other channels on the k8s slack...
    - move the discussion offl
- [leogr] Is it time to archive meeting notes for 2020?
    - This HackMD is too big, IMHO! :)
- [jonah] AWS ECR Gallery sumo-logic uploaded falco image https://gallery.ecr.aws/sumologic/falco do we want to re-visit this?
    - Publish to other registries too
- [jonah] going to open a PR with leodido on Falco for changing the CircleCi config and publish falco docker images to AWS ECR registry
- [thomas] adding carlos to falcosidekick owners
- [loris] thank you everybody for the great yaer!

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 
- **Next Release**: 0.27 on January 18th (Spencer, Lore)




# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording](https://)

## 2020-12-9

### MC


- Spencer Krum [@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)


### Who joined


- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)
- Spencer Krum [@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)
- Loris Degioanni [@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio)
- Emily Fox [@TheFoxAtWork](https://github.com/thefoxatwork)
- Néstor Salceda [@nestorsalceda](https://github.com/nestorsalceda)
- Leonardo Di Donato [@leodido](https:/github.com/leodido)
- Rajakavitha [@Rajie](https://github.com/Rajakavitha1)
- Lorenzo Fontana [@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz)
- Stefan Uygur [@ostendali](https:/github.com/ostendali)
- Thomas Labarussias [@Issif](https://github.com/Issif)
- POP [@danpopsd](https://github.com/danpopsd)


### This week highlights

- Cool stuff that happened this week? 
    - Play with Falco **PoC**
    - http://pwf.bpf.sh
    - Tool to iterate on rules, first touch with falco rules
    - Plan to incubate it in the falcosecurity organization

### Agenda

- [issif] 2 new outputs for falcosidekick
- [leogr] Falco helm chart - removing old integrations (fifo, nats, etc) [charts#123](https://github.com/falcosecurity/charts/issues/123)
- Falco website WG on next Friday
    - early demo looks great! meetings soon
- Community Has the Floor
- Milestones updated according to last week, all good?
    - for Jan release
- Dec 13th CFP Deadline for Kubecon Europe
- December Meetings
    - Dec 16th Yes
    - Dec 23rd No - Let's eat [Panettone](https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panettone)
    - Dec 30th No
    - Jan 6 No
        - la befana (sp?)
    - Jan 13
    - Presumpive release jan 18 (befana)
        - RELEASE.md


### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: LeoGrasso
- **Next Release**: 0.27 on January (Spencer, Lore)

## 2020-12-2

### MC

- POP [@danpopsd](https://github.com/danpopsd)

### Who joined

- Leonardo Di Donato [@leodido](https://github.com/leodido)
- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr) [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)
- Rajakavitha [@Rajie](https://github.com/Rajakavitha1)
- Spencer Krum [@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)
- Loris Degioanni [@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio)
- Angelo Puglisi [@deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86)
- Vicente Herrera [@vicenteherrera](https://github.com/vicenteherrera)
- Néstor Salceda[@nestorsalceda](https://github.com/nestorsalceda)
- Stefan Uygur [@ostendali](https://github.com/ostendali)
- Carlos Panato

### This week highlights

- Contributors of the Month! Jonah and Maxgio
    - THANK YOU!

### Agenda

- Falco website working group
    - progress and sharing ideas
    - Let's look at the doodle and pick the date
    - Rajie working on it restructuring the content
    - Still a WIP
    - Leo did a new architectural diagram
- Infra WG
    - What's going on with prebuilt drivers?
        - Migrating them to ProwJob because we've reached the 5h deadline in CircleCI
        - Planning: https://github.com/falcosecurity/test-infra/projects/1
    - We're very happy with the new Prow!
    - Other automations going on
- Release 0.27.0 postponed, when?
    - Blockers:
        - Release of prebuilt drivers for Falco 0.27
        - Release of a new **versioned** Falco website
- Sidekick Outputs: Cloudwatch and Kafka! (https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/tag/2.19.0)
- Publish Falco container images on [ECR AWS gallery](https://gallery.ecr.aws) too?
    - Also on [GitHub Packages](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/guides/publishing-docker-images#publishing-images-to-github-packages)? Others?
    - Fan-out approach? Cons, Pros?
    - One idea is to select only a single registry and support only that
- Community Has the Floor

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 
- **Next Release**: 0.27 on January (Spencer?)

## 2020-11-25

### MC

- Lorenzo Fontana [@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz)

### Who joined

- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)
- Leonardo Di Donato [@leodido](https://github.com/leodido)
- Radu Andries [@admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0)
- Jonah Jones [@jonahjon](https://github.com/jonahjon)
- POP [@danpopsd](https://github.com/danpopsd)
- Rajie [@Rajakavitha1](https://github.com/rajakavitha1)


### This week highlights

- Discuss the release next week
    - We release as decided

### Agenda

- Falco website
    - Let's just release first
    - We want to do this as mandatory for releasing 0.28.0
    - Start a working group for the website
    - Lore to send a doodle to choose a time
    - Restructuring needs to be done in a concious way, we need to define clear goals
    - Upgrading path documentation (can be done with versioned docs YAY)
- Huge buzz at the KubeCon NA
    - Talk on the bypasses using missing syscalls (& blocking lua, etc.) by leodido
        - (page by lore about missing syscalls: http://falco-missing-syscalls.fntlnz.wtf)
    - Talk by POP on the ecosystem
    - Talk by Leo Grasso on Introducing Falco
    - Talk by MathWorks
- Issue upgrading Falco from 0.23 to 0.26.x ([issue 1486](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1486))
    - Initial PR [1488](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1488)

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: POP
- **Next Release**: [Dec 1st, 2020](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/13) - Lore (lead), POP and Jonah shadows

## 2020-11-11

### MC

- Leonardo Di Donato [@leodido](https://github.com/leodido)


### Who joined

- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)
- Néstor Salceda [@nestorsalceda](https://github.com/nestorsalceda)
- Spencer Krum [@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)
- Radu Andries [@admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0)
- POP [@danpopsd](https://github.com/danpopsd)
- Lorenzo Fontana [@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz)
- Steven Terrana [@steven-terrana](https://github.com/steven-terrana)
- Loris degioanni [@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio)
- Thomas Labarussias [@Issif](https://github.com/Issif)
- Adrian Goins [@oskapt](https://github.com/oskapt)
- Dan Miles [@3266miles](https://github.com/Ares3266)

### This week highlights

- [leo/lore] Falco 0.26.2 release highlights!
- [lore] Support for aarch64 landed! ([PR 1442](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1442))
    - CI still missing [issue here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1445)


### Agenda

- [nestor] Nestor to demonstrate VS Code plugin work
    - https://github.com/sysdiglabs/vscode-falco
- [jonah/maxgio] Update on Prow work
    - [leo] https://prow.falco.org listed into the official kubernetes/test-infra/prow repository! ([link](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/README.md#prow-in-the-wild))
- [Issif] Falcosidekick new releases 2.15.0/2.16.0:
    - new output AWS SNS (only one step left before replacing Falco response engine pieces)
    - prometheus exporter
    - custom headers can be added for webhook output
    - CircleCI has been added for unit tests (@leogr)
- [leo/pop] Falco Community Social Process Discussion
    - Put a process together in falcosecurity/community
    - Let the Falco Community maintainers have access to the socials of Falco
- [pop] Community Roundtable
- [leogr] Asynchronous outputs and slow outputs detection 
    - PR [#1451](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1451) **ready for review**
    - [benchmark] events drop threshold:
        - before: `cpu="103.4%" res_mem="40 MB" throughput="8457.0 EPS"`
        - after : `cpu="168.8%" res_mem="49 MB" throughput="10071.8 EPS"`
    - [demo] slow output detection demo: https://asciinema.org/a/372111
    - [bonus point] enable gRPC clients to subscribe to drop alerts
- [radu] Falco in userspace status update

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Kris Nova
- **Next Release**: [Dec 1st, 2020](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/13)

## 2020-10-21

### MC

- Spencer Krum [@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)

### Who joined

- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)
- Spencer Krum [@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)
- Leonardo Di Donato [@leodido](https://github.com/leodido)
- Thomas Labarussias [@Issif](https://github.com/Issif)
- Patryk Małek [@pmalek-sumo](https://github.com/pmalek-sumo)
- Loris Degioanni [@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio)
- Marcin "Perk" Stożek [@perk-sumo](https://github.com/perk-sumo)

### This week highlights

- Release of Falcosidekick 2.15.0
    - New Output : **AWS SWS**
    - New **prometheus-exporter** scrapping endpoint (*/metrics*)
- Nova
    - Keynote on Falco eBPF probe tomorrow 9:30am Pacific
    - [link](https://ebpf.io/summit-2020/)
- Drivers now at https://download.falco.org
    - Soon also other artifacts

### Agenda

- Progress on Infra work
- [Leo/Lore] Progress on Drivers
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/test-infra/pull/200
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1460
- [Leo/Lore] Hotfix 0.26.2 to include (only) #1460 fix
    - Yay
- [nova] What happened with [pdig release](https://github.com/falcosecurity/pdig/releases)? Can I help?
    - Would like to use for arm64
    - [Leo] Opened this time ago: https://github.com/falcosecurity/pdig/issues/16
    - Kris to make a yolo release
- [Leo] Discuss @epcim PR [1384](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1384)
    - Khaize's concers [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1384#issuecomment-716765841)
    - [Loris] Why not include container.id as well so no one breaks -> https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1384#issuecomment-718016587
- [Patryk Małek] fluentd plugins calling k8s API - [slack link](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CMWH3EH32/p1603891585355000)
    - Need to look into proc.xyz fields to find the right thing to match on

```bash
/usr/local/bin/ruby -Eascii-8bit:ascii-8bit /usr/local/bundle/bin/fluentd -c /fluentd/etc/fluent.conf -p /fluentd/plugins --under-supervisor
```

```json
 {
    "output": "11:12:55.332218642: Warning fluentd info (user=<NA> container_id=2940cbde42c2 container_name=<NA> proc.name=event_loop parent=fluentd cmdline=event_loop -Eascii-8bit:ascii-8bit /usr/local/bundle/bin/fluentd -c /fluentd/etc/fluent.conf -p /fluentd/plugins --under-supervisor proc.pcmdline=fluentd /usr/local/bundle/bin/fluentd -c /fluentd/etc/fluent.conf -p /fluentd/plugins) k8s.ns=sumologic k8s.pod=collection-sumologic-fluentd-metrics-0 container=2940cbde42c2",
    "priority": "Warning",
    "rule": "fluentd1",
    "time": "2020-10-13T11:12:55.332218642Z",
    "output_fields": {
      "container.id": "2940cbde42c2",
      "container.name": null,
      "evt.time": 1602587575332218642,
      "k8s.ns.name": "sumologic",
      "k8s.pod.name": "collection-sumologic-fluentd-metrics-0",
      "proc.cmdline": "event_loop -Eascii-8bit:ascii-8bit /usr/local/bundle/bin/fluentd -c /fluentd/etc/fluent.conf -p /fluentd/plugins --under-supervisor",
      "proc.name": "event_loop",
      "proc.pcmdline": "fluentd /usr/local/bundle/bin/fluentd -c /fluentd/etc/fluent.conf -p /fluentd/plugins",
      "proc.pname": "fluentd",
      "user.name": null
    }
  },
```

- [nova] Hitting this (any ideas?)
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1334
```bash
    In file included from /home/nova/Develop/falco/build/sysdig-repo/sysdig-prefix/src/sysdig/driver/bpf/probe.c:22:
In file included from /home/nova/Develop/falco/build/sysdig-repo/sysdig-prefix/src/sysdig/driver/bpf/filler_helpers.h:13:
In file included from ./include/net/sock.h:59:
In file included from ./include/linux/filter.h:25:
In file included from ./include/net/sch_generic.h:21:
./include/net/flow_offload.h:354:3: error: use of undeclared identifier 'KBUILD_MODNAME'
                NL_SET_ERR_MSG_MOD(extack, "Driver does not support selected HW stats type");

```
    - use of undeclared identifier 'KBUILD_MODNAME'
    - [Leo] seems related to https://github.com/draios/sysdig/pull/1690






### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Leodido
- **Next Minor Release**: [October 30, 2020](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/)
- **Next Release**: [Dec 1st, 2020](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/13)


## 2020-10-21

### MC

- Spencer Krum [@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)

### Who joined

 - Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)

### This week highlights



### Agenda


- Updates on the infra?
    - testing infrastructure as code now
    - Thanks AWS for the credits!
    - Primary goal is to get the group  together to solve our infra problems
    - We <3 bintray but be have outgrown them
- Need a project update for kubecon https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-maintainers/message/152 - let's do an async/on document working group to fill that?
    - "whats new in falco"
    - google doc, share with maintainers
    - Lorenzo to start the doc
    - last blog: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2020/08/17/falco-update-whats-new-in-falco-0-25/ (haha I just grabbed this)
    - Kubecon: Nov 17
    - Project Update: October 23rd (end of the day)
- C API
    - api to poke falco to do things
    - live reloading of rules?
    - etcdwatch/kubewatch to picuk up configmap changes
- Memory Leak issue?
    - slack: https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CMWH3EH32/p1603227691256700
    - not a memory leak
    - probably not widespread user affected
    - specific bug related to that users' configuration
    - next steps: 
        - valgrind
        - compile with -pg
- Kube audit events
    - See also [#1431](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1431) (DynamicAuditing feature removed in K8s 1.19)
    - Pop  has been promoting
    - Integration code doesn't live in the falco community
    - Dynamic is being removed, "classic" still works
    - Helm chart for dynamic auditing is broken - #wontfix
        - webserver inside falco
        - how to setup integration
    - todo: remove dynamic webhook support/docs
        - spencer
- Helm chart refactor out old integrations
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/charts/issues/123
    - todo: add warnings about removals, then remove (conditionals on notes)
- [leogr] WIP on outputs improvements
    - non blocking outputs [#1415](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1451)
    - incidentally add drop alerts to gRCP API
    - bigger conversation around warning user about unworkable configuration
- Exceptions support PR: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1427
    - can we merge the proposal first? https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1376


### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Spencer
- **Next Release**: [Dec 1st, 2020](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/13)

## 2020-10-14

### MC

- Kris Nóva [@kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova)
 
### Who joined

- Kris Nóva [@kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova)
- Spencer Krum [@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)
- Thomas Labarussias [@Issif](https://github.com/issif)
- Loris Degioanni [@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio)
- Lorenzo Fontana [@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz)
- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)


### This week highlights

- 

### Agenda

- [Nova] Arm working group 
    - Sent an email - We need to find out a time that works for everyone
    - Lua jit seems to be preferred over moon jit (more updates/maintainer)
    - Need arm build nodes: https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/a1/
        - (a problem for the -infra wg)
- [leogr] BTW, removed LUA from Falco outputs [#1412](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1412)
- [Issif] a prometheus-exporter is now implemented into falcosidekick, it respects syntax and label of `falco-exporter` from @LeoGrasso
    - [leogr] Thank you! :)
- [fntlnz] Outputs in C++
    - [leogr] looking at implementing a queue to keep the outputs from Falco
    - 

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Spencer
- **Next Release**: [Dec 1st, 2020](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/13)


---

# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording](https://)

## 2020-10-7

### MC

- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)
 
### Who joined

- Kris Nóva [@kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova)
- Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer)) 
- Radu Andries ([@admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0))
- Loris Degioanni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))

### This week highlights

- happy birth day to one of our maintainers!
    - Who could this be?
- [lore,leodido] Falco 0.26.1 is out ([blog post](https://falco.org/blog/falco-0-26-1/))
    - From now, we release Falco every 2 months
    - Milestone for [0.27.0](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/13) due by December 1st, 2020
- [leodido] Hackoctoberfest rules have changed
    - How should we partecipate? Please vote: [mailinglist message](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-dev/message/173)
- [spencer] Update on hackmd<->github integration
    - We still need automation for this
    - [nova] Archive notes when a release occurs

### Agenda

- [radu] Userspace proposal [#1388](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1388)
    -  Add kilt as repository to the falcosecurity org (with sandbox status)
        -  we all agree
    -  TBD kilt-definitions as a separate repository (instead of being part of kilt repository)
        -  [lore] a folder in the evolution repo
        -  [spencer] a folder in the kilt repo
        -  we all agree to have it in the kilt repo
    -  TBD How to publish artifacs (docker image)?
        -  [radu] will create CircleCI yaml for building repo
        -  falcosecurity/falco-userspace is ok
    -  pdig published as artifact
        -  make it as simple as possible
        -  it's own release workflow could be a good thing
        -  who will take care of that?
    -  The implementation PoC is in this pr: [falcosecurity/evolution#40](https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/pull/40)
        -  [radu] will close the PR to commit to the kilt repository
- [nova] PTAL 
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1434
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/community/pull/117

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Kris Nova
- **Next Release**: [Dec 1st, 2020](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/13)

# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording](https://)

## 2020-09-30

### MC

- Leonardo Grasso [@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)
 
### Who joined

- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- Radu Andries ([admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Spencer Krum ([nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))

### This week highlights

- Falco 0.26.0 is out (?)
    - [Release on GitHub](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/releases) is still draft
    - [bug](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1418) in the default ruleset for 0.26.0 - so probably we need to release a 0.26.1 hotfix release
    - We decided to publish the 0.26.0 live on the call and we will skip the announcement since we have to release 0.26.1 with the fix. We will do announcement and blog post all together for 0.26.1.
    - Lorenzo and Leogr to release 0.26.1

### Agenda

- [Lore/Leo/Leogr/Loris] Release window
    - Proposal: Releasing Falco every 2 months (instead of every month)
    - Find all the places where we refer to the 1month thing and update to two months. Probably only RELEASE.md in the main Falco repo
    - Lorenzo and leogr to update the docs for this
    - Pick a date during the next community community call
- [Lore] Versioned documentation
    - Proposal: versioned release proposal in falco-website, a dropdown in the website
    - Maybe the CNCF can help with this?
- [Lore/Leo] CII best practices
- [Lore] static analysis pass is merged
- Infra WG call tomorrow
- Automation for calls
    - link hackmd and github?
    - streaming the meeting live on YouTube?
    - No updates atm
- [radu] Kilt - next steps
- [lore/radu] revamp falcoctl
- falco-website [PR flooded by bots](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pulls)
    - we limited the repo to prior contributor
- [Issif] Podcast (French) about Falco and Falcosidekick : https://electro-monkeys.fr/?p=459
- [leogr] Falco outputs improvments WIP [#1417](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1417)
- [nibz] Did a cool workshop. Code at https://github.com/nibalizer/falco-workshop. May add to fs/evolution?
    - Everyone agrees that this content is amazing, Spencer did a great job
    - We'd like to have this in the falco.org/docs/quickstart page with this content

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Leonardo Grasso
- **Next Release**: 


---


# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording]()

## 2020-09-23

### MC

- Spencer Krum ([nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))

### Who joined


- Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Radu Andries ([@admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0))
- Mattia Meleleo ([@mmat11](https://github.com/mmat11))
- Loris Degioanni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- 


### This week highlights

- 

### Agenda

- [nibz] Mentee Projects Through [cncf](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2020/09/21/calling-all-mentees-cncf-communitybridge-projects-for-the-fall-2020-program/)
    - Lets document some potential projects for next time
    - Document in Evolution Repo
        - Issue in evolution repo for "the project"
    - DO September opportunity
    - Lets open/label good-first-issues
        - [Leo] Use /good-first-issue and /remove-good-first-issue poiana commands if you want
    - TODO: blog article on falco.org around good-first-issue/internl project (nova)
- [Nova] Release team for 0.26.0
    - Did not go out, there was a showstopper bug
    - Will release thursday 9/23, discuss on #setns
- [Lore] Infra Team / Meeting
    - [Lore] meeting taking place tomorrow - [mailing list message](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-dev/topic/falco_infra_working_group/76911169?p=,,,20,0,0,0::recentpostdate%2Fsticky,,,20,2,0,76911169)
    - [Nova] Tekton?
    - [Leo/Lore] Talked with CNCF - Will update the community today and during tomorrow's meeting
- [Lore/Leo] CII best practices score is now 92% - Static code analysis and addressing warning falgs are the missing topic to go 100%
    - [link](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/projects/2317)
- [Lore/Leo] PDIG static build (https://github.com/falcosecurity/pdig/pull/19/files)
    - Release pipeline? How? Who does it? Who handles it?
    - More context into https://github.com/falcosecurity/pdig/issues/16
- [Lore] Videos on the website (https://falco.org/videos)
    - Config here: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/blob/master/config.yaml#L48
- [Leo/Matt] Python client for gRPC Falco outputs API updated to the recent improvements and changes to the API (https://github.com/falcosecurity/client-py/pull/41
    - Account for publishing to PyPi?
    - https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-maintainers/topics
    - TODO: nova/spencer build pointer system for maintainers
- [Leo] Gonna present Falco to RomHack this Sunday ([agenda](https://www.romhack.io/speakers-2020.html#didonato))
    - First in person conference after soooo long, exciting and scaring at the same time!
- [Nova] Automation for calls
    - Can we just use a doc for notes instead of PRs?
        - TODO: nibz will attempt to link hackmd and github
    - Is there a way to share the zoom archive?
        - TODO: nibz/nova will look at linking youtube and zoom for automatic uploads
        - TODO: update docs after ^^
    - Documentation: https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/360028478292-Streaming-a-Meeting-or-Webinar-on-YouTube-Live
### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 
    - Leo Grasso 30/9/2020
- **Next Release**: 
    - 0.26.0 -> 24/9/2020


## 2020-09-16

### MC

- Lorenzo Fontana ([fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))

### Who joined

- Chichi Weng([@wcc526])(https://github.com/wcc526)
- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
- Mark Stemm ([@mstemm](https://github.com/mstemm))
- Radu Andries ([@admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Jean-Philippe Lachance ([@jplachance](https://github.com/JPLachance))
- Loris Degioanni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))
- Fahad Arshad ([@farshad-hobsons](https://github.com/farshad-hobsons))

### This week highlights

- Spencer recorded a Falco talk for Ekoparty (Argentinian Security Conference)
    -[Lore/Nova] Starting to add videos to falco.org 


### Agenda

- [Lore] What can we do to improve the community calls process
    - We need an MC for next week: Spencer
- [Lore] Release team for 0.26.0
    - Leonardo Di Donato volunteered
    - Leonardo Grasso voluntereed
    - Kris Nova voluntereed
    - Nova set up invite and sent to the mailing list for tomorrow 10am to 12pm Pacific
    - Spencer volunteers for 0.27.0 team
- [Lore/Leo] Talk about the eBPF runtime issues
    - Working on a fix, does not load in > 5.8.5 kernels
- [Leo/Lore] falco-driver-loader-improvements
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1408
- [Leo/Lore] driverkit improvements about ubuntu[-aws]
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/driverkit/pull/69
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/test-infra/pull/172
    - Release v0.1.0
- [Chichi Weng] [Falco overhead](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1404)
    - For the disk write slowed down: @loris was suggesting that we can try to profile what happens in this scenario. However this looks like more an issue in the engine since not a lot of rules are hit in a situation like that. The CPU usage is related to the amount of events, this is a known limitation. We can probably improve the situation by doing filtering in the driver. Tl;dr: 24% percent is probably something to take into account if you want to run falco in a machine with that usage pattern.
    - First experiment we can do is to put an UF_ALWAYS_DROP in https://github.com/draios/sysdig/blob/dev/driver/syscall_table.c#L59 to see how it behaves.
    - Lorenzo to copy this context to the issue
- [Chichi Weng] [cn_proc+netlink](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1397)
    - Chichi shared their use case, as described in the issue
        - Instead of monitoring every single syscall, only process, fork, exec are dealt with. This is faster but less complete.
    - Loris suggests that since Falco is very generic in the inputs this can be added as another use case
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1398/files
    - Can be written as an userspace input, example here: https://github.com/fntlnz/userspace-example
- [mstemm] [Falco Exceptions Proposal](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1376)
- [Loris] Update on rules engine performance
- [Fahad/MattCaya] Operational stability
    - Bintray storage limit for pre-built drivers   (https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1399)
    - Kris to implement the last part of cleanup artifacts proposal: archive "old" drivers cleanup artifacts proposal to S3 and make falco-driver-loader lookup for them there too

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Spencer Krum
- **Next Release**: (Lead: Kris Nova), (Help: Leonardo Di Donato) on 17th Sept

---

# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording]()


## 2020-09-09

### MC

- Kris Nóva ([kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova))

### Who joined

- Spencer Krum ([nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
- Kris Nóva ([kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova))
- Grzegorz Nosek ([gnosek](https://github.com/gnosek))
- Radu Andries ([admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([leodido](https://github.com/leodido))

### This week highlights

- Spencer recorded a Falco talk for Ekoparty (Argentinian Security Conference)


### Agenda

 - [Radu] [Proposal](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1388) for fargate support and deployment
 - [Nova] Discovered relationship between Kubernetes and Container source
     - Are we ready for an update?
     - [Leo] While testing async DNS resolution we discovered when you use Kubernetes AND Container fields in outputs at the same time -- can cause missing data about containers metadata
     - [Leo/Lore] Was not present a year ago
 - [Nova] Userspace group after this
     - This is more than just "sig-fargate" - sig-userspace?
     - The working group solves "deployment of userspace" first, and fargate is a consequence. 
     - We will need to figure out which (tools) we would like to support.
 - [Leo] Falco added as project on k8s test-infra (Prow) official repo
     - go show some love to the [PR](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/19140)
     - [Going Beyond CI/CD with Prow](https://youtu.be/qQvoImxHydk) talk at Kubecon EU 2020
     - ^^^ Useful for helping people understanding Prow and how Poiana (the way we call its instance in the Falco community) fits our OSS workflows
 - [Lore] Static binaries
     - [Leo/Lore] c-ares dns resolution done
     - WIP [falco#1377](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1377)
 - [Leo] Proposal of substitute the contents of the current tarball artifacts (bin, bin-dev bintray repositories) with the statically linked Falco
 - [Lore] Ideas for improvements of our eBPF driver: libbpf, BTF, ...


### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 
- **Next Release**: 


---

---

# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording]()

## 2020-02-09

### Agenda


## 2020-

### MC

- 

### Who joined

- Spencer Krum ([nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
- Kris Nóva ([kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova))
- Grzegorz Nosek ([gnosek](https://github.com/gnosek))
- Loris Degioanni ([ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))
- Radu Andries ([admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Lorenzo Fontana ([fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
- 
### This week highlights


### Agenda

- [Nóva] Fargate Working Group (Wed after Community Call)
    - Proposal Wednesday mornings 9am - 10am Pacific for Fargate meetings
    - Any concerns or other suggestions?
    - Radu has a proposal to share a proposal for a cloud formation toolchain that can inject binaries into a fargate environment
        - Proposal takes over the "entrypoint" of the container to inject a binary
    - [Nova] To send out game plan email (doodles and docs)
- [Nóva] Heads up on [Github Container Registry](https://github.blog/2020-09-01-introducing-github-container-registry/)
    - jfrog alternatives 
        - open build service suse [link](https://build.opensuse.org/)
        - More dev focused (should be fairly close to bintray)
        - High barrier to entry 
- [Nóva] Setns Update
    - https://github.com/setns/live
    - https://trello.com/invite/b/thjsJZwb/80d3dd6ee973a49e80b86c9e1566e355/setns
    - Upcoming epsides
    - Call for hands
        - Nova
        - Spencer
        - Leo DiDo
    - Weekly standing call for pre-setns planning
- [Nóva] Update on performance
    - Issue from @fujin https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1231
    - [Loris] Falco performance is a composite problem from many sources/variables
    - Filters in the syntax could be creating complexity / computational overhead 
    - Rules ultimately translate to boolean conditions (lots of them chained together)
    - Compared against const values (int like comparisons)
    - Average filter 10's OR 100's of checks/compares
    - Compilers for Falco rules
        - compiler.cpp
        - lua compiler
        - `proc.name=cat` is relevant both for falco rules and sysdig cli
    - Loris believes that if we can optomize the rules we can begin to reduce to drops (gprof graph showcasing that http://fs.fntlnz.wtf/falco/grpof-28-aug-2020-live.png)
    - [Nova] Does Falco parse "all system events regardless of rules?
    - [Loris] Running without a filter (we get every system call other than IO)
    - [Nova] Of the non-IO events - is it worth it to optimize what events we capture based on rules?
    - [Grzegorz] Suggestion to build a filter that only will consume events relevant to the rules
    - This is definetly a place we can optimize things (open/close execve)
    - At startup we could register the relevant filters based on the rules
    - [Grzergorz] We can use seccomp filters 
        - With ptrace(2) we do not have access to kernel structs/unions/headers so we reconstruct from `/proc` with any process generating syscall (clone, fork, unshare, etc)
        - TLDR we can share a tighter set of optimizations with the producer (It sounds like this might be worth it)
    - [Loris] We can do the optimization on the target using seccomp at startup
    - [Nova] To share template for proposal with Loris to write down optimization design doc
    - [leogr] added sort of benchmark tool to the [event-generator](https://github.com/falcosecurity/event-generator#benchmark)
        - Falco should not be operating ~100% CPU of 1 core 
        - Falco engine operatings strictly on a single core (at a time)
        - [leogr] The output can impact drops 
            - GKE specific drops (hourrly, daily)
- [Lore] Musl builds
    - [Nova] Can we add this to the first Fargate call?
    - [LeoGR] PR open
        - Still missing get_addr_info_a(); with MUSL

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 
- **Next Release**: 


---

# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording]()

## 2020-08-12

### MC

- Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))

### Who joined

- Loris Degioanni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))
- Natch Ruengsakulrach ([@natchaphon-r](https://github.com/natchaphon-r))
- Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))


### This week highlights


### Agenda

- [Lore] userspace instrumentation
    - Userspace example and docs
    - BCC
- [Lore] need help updating the drivers, anyone? :)
- [Lore] Good news! AWS approved 12k USD for us to use for Falco infra [test-infra#159](https://github.com/falcosecurity/test-infra/issues/159)
  - We have some codes
  - What happens when the 12k expire (asked this question to AWS)
  - Migration, when? Who?
- [nibalizer] Cool updates to the python-client (not merged yet)
    - examples [falco-logdna](https://github.com/nibalizer/miscelaneous/blob/master/logdna/falco-logdna.py)
- [nibalizer] Why is the falso unix socket 700 root/root?
    - does that makes it so every consumer utility must run as root?
    - Log perms?
    ```
    $ ls -l /var/log/falco/falco.log
    -rw-r----- 1 syslog adm 10024376 Aug 12 15:45 /var/log/falco/falco.log
    ```
- [lore] Push the release one week later to let it be better to handle

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 
- **Next Release**: [0.25.0](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/11) on August, 18th - Who are the releasers?
