# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://sysdig.zoom.us/my/falco)
[Recording](https://youtu.be/pCE24yZmhZo)

## 2020-02-19

### MC

 - Kris Nova

### Who joined

 - Name ([@github](https://github.com/))
 - Spencer Krum ([@nibalizer](https://github.com/nibalizer))
 - Kris Nova ([@kris-nova](https://github.com/kris-nova))
 - Vikash ([@Vikash082](https://github.com/Vikash082))
 - Rajib ([@rajibmitra](https://github.com/rajibmitra))
 - NÃ©stor Salceda ([@nestorsalceda](https://github.com/nestorsalceda))
 - Lorenzo Fontana ([@fntlnz](https://github.com/fntlnz))
 - Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido)) (late to the party)

### This week highlights

 - [Falco 0.20.0](https://falco.org/blog/falco-0-20-0/)
     - Shout out to Rajib and Leo
     - Working on POC for publishing packages via API service
     - Finally moving away from Sysdig infrastructure
     - 

### Agenda

 - [Nova] Update on 1.0?
     - [What it is](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LqokBheEHvh4f8jk1TXd5OkyMmRnOxNkcf22ihT1BsI/edit)?
     - What it isn't?
 - [Nova] Update on 0.21.0? 
     - 1OOth release \o/
     - See notes above ^
 - [Nova] Update on [Zoom](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community/issues/68)
     - What about YouTube?
 - [Nova] Reopened Issues
     - [Code Analysis](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/833)
     - [Unit Tests](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/691)
     - [External Dependencies](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/705)
 - [Nestor (on Slack)] Support for slim/minimal images in helm chart
     - Question about the change, what do we need to do to support this?
     - Moving the kernel module to a framework, instead of a supported feature
     - Survey regarding supported arch and OSs
     - Configuration file in OSS to manage kernel module building 
 - [Lorenzo] Updates on kernel builds
 - [Lorenzo] Falco Build Service Survey (https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfYe5cMBLpVQg6KJh-cDLwyptyiR5VN44f9ESE-JVZJGElV9A/viewform) - results: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TKJIXAMWPRTb8x--Kkq17ipee8xvV08LFLfBN3VzLNU/edit?usp=sharing
     - [Nova] Check in about infra.falco.org - who needs what for the k8s cluster?
 - [Anders (on Slack)] falco_probe in minikube
     - You can test Falco in Minikube using the last release
 - [rajib] Let's simplify the release process before 100th 
     - [Leo/Lorenzo] working on publsihing packages https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1059
     - Nova to send out Doodle regarding 1.0 release date
 - [Lorenzo] DEB/RPM packages hosting bintray
     - https://bintray.com/falcosecurity
     - https://deploy-preview-153--falcosecurity.netlify.com/
 - [Nestor] SecurityHub.dev preview design: Feedback and call for contributors
     - [Invision stuff](https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/VZVYZ3ADG37#/screens/404912108)

### Closing

 - **MC Next Call**: Nova
 - **Build/Infra/Release Call**: 