# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgVVUpW8NIJAaZtszf1_nxB2y6mQrlY4s)

## 2022-10-12

### MC
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))

### Who joined

- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- Fred Araujo ([araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Adao Junior ([junior](https://github.com/junior))
- David Windsor ([dub](https://github.com/dwindsor))
- Luca Guerra ([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Jacque Salinas ([jsalinas32](https://github.com/jsalinas32))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Hiroki Akamatsu ([hi120ki](https://github.com/hi120ki))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))
- Matt White ([@matthewjwhite](https://github.com/matthewjwhite))

### This week highlights
- Falco sessions on Oracle CloudWorld event next week
    - https://reg.rf.oracle.com/flow/oracle/cloudworld/session-catalog/page/catalog?search=falco

### Agenda
- [jacque] Falco at Kubecon
- [jasondellaluce] Status on Falco 0.33.0 release: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/2230

## 2022-10-05

### MC
- Jacque

### Who joined 

- Jacqueline Salinas [(jsalinas32)](https://github.com/jsalinas32)
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Matt White ([@matthewjwhite](https://github.com/matthewjwhite))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Adao Junior ([junior](https://github.com/junior))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))

### This week highlights
- Falco & Hashicorp live coding session: share w/your networks or attend
    - [Building a Falco plugin for Nomad: October 7 @ 11am CEST](https://twitter.com/falco_org/status/1577061452011098112?s=20&t=8yc542GJvBn-Nic3KE-urg) 
    - [Youtube link for live stream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=93dKlEGotx0) 

### Agenda
- [jacque] PR intake form for upcoming release
- [jason] Release is delayed and expecting Oct. 12th
    - tracking issue: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/2230
- [jacque] CFPs for Kubecon EU & CloudNativeSecurityCon 
    - ping Jacque to coordinate
- [jacque] Kubecon NA: need help with the kiosk, project meeting [sign up staffers/speakers](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PISqNDdOIaMfR4eoDIErOGdOXmEcJKBAhYfVMyzDayI/edit?usp=sharing)
- [jacque] Kubecon NA: maintainer track (who is owning this and do you need help?)
    - Jason/Luca
- [matthew] resource for getting started with Falco
    - https://falco.org/blog/

## 2022-09-28

### MC
- Jason

### Who joined 
- Jacqueline Salinas [jsalinas32](https://github.com/jsalinas32)
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))
- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Luca Guerra ([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))

### This week highlights

### Agenda
* [jsalinas32] [Falco kiosk volunteers](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PISqNDdOIaMfR4eoDIErOGdOXmEcJKBAhYfVMyzDayI/edit?usp=sharing) 
* [jsalinas32] Kubecon project mtg update: [prep doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dR7YjXC9D35aQ2mbqdq0UPB_ir70gYUJOHVI3vh1Yik/edit?usp=sharing)
* [jsalinas32] Marketing materials for events - [comment here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community/issues/157)
    * postcards 
    * spec card
    * bookmarks 
    * case study 
    * other (?)
    * speaker/session handout 
* [jasondellaluce] Falco 0.33 release status updates
    * Proposing myself as release manager for Falco

## 2022-09-21

### MC

- n/a

### Who joined 
- Jacqueline Salinas ([jsalinas32](https://github.com/jsalinas32))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- David Windsor ([dub](https://github.com/dwindsor))
- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))
- Matt White ([@matthewjwhite](https://github.com/matthewjwhite))


### This week highlights
- [jacque] gVisor & Falco press: [Container Journal](https://containerjournal-com.cdn.ampproject.org/c/s/containerjournal.com/uncategorized/sysdig-adds-gvisor-support-to-falco-container-security-platform/amp/), [Finance Hub Express](https://financehubexpress.in/falco-menace-detection-extends-to-gvisor-to-monitor-extremely-delicate-workloads/), [Edgeir](https://www.edgeir.com/gvisor-and-falco-team-up-to-improve-container-security-20220919)  
- [jasondellaluce] Libs release:
    - Release issue: https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/issues/626 
    - Documentation: https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/blob/33ca24e29790092cf5176fee5fd02cfaa1f5591a/release.md

### Agenda
- [jacque] Twitter mention: PRs from an intern https://twitter.com/rung/status/1570585882289377280?s=20&t=VgnMOnSr_DUxotkPH98dTg 
- start of frozen period for libs

## 2022-09-14

### MC

- Jacqueline Salinas ([jsalinas32](https://github.com/jsalinas32))

### Who joined 

- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Luca Guerra ([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))
- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))



### This week highlights

- [Molter73] e2e tests for the libs repo have been merged!
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/506
    - Running them on CI: https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/604

### Agenda
- [Issif] Who's expecting to go to Kubecon NA? (Reach me in DM)
- [jacque] Kubecon NA project meeting planning
    - 4 hr project meeting for Falco
    - 1st time hosting! Exciting oppty
    - How do we want to structure the agenda: 
        - Brainstorm with community
            - Libs
            - Project roadmap
            - meet & greet the community 
            - falco 101 & how to get involved
            - plugins
            - big updates 
            - gVisor
            - ARM support
            - 2022 update since KC EU '22 & KC NA '21
            - What's the history & rationale behind project decisions in general 
            - Kubecon NA: kick off survey in Twitter 
            - Pain points about the current status of the project
            - Feedback session on pain points, experience overall, why did you choose Falco - open sharing session
                - topics: 
                    - how do you use falco? 
                    - what's missing in docs? 
                    - what kind of integrations you are using
                    - what other outputs you use or would like/need to see developed
        - Audience
            - new members 
            - existing 
        - Document for sharing ideas for the project agenda & structure (add link here)
        - Speakers
            - add you name :)
- [jacque] Blog proposal
    - open PR under WIP
- [jacque] Swag
    - follow up with CNCF 
    - hoodies, plushie, stickers (new design?), bottles, yeti stainless cups
- [jacque] Falco bevy group
    - bevy is a platform similar to meetup
    - examples: https://community.cncf.io/ 
    - jacque to own and run program
    - jacque to submit PR & maintainers to submit application
- contributor of the month
    - what is the criteria
    - blog (?)
    - graphics
- Jacque: create a thread in slack for nomination
    - Leo: nominates Mauro for contributor of the month September
    - Federico: nominates Andrea for all libraries 
- Jacque: add a poll feature or request Amye to add a poll 
- 



## 2022-09-07

### MC

- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
 
### Who joined

- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Ian Robertson ([IanRobertson-wpe](https://github.com/IanRobertson-wpe))
- Jacqueline Salinas ([jsalinas32](https://github.com/jsalinas32))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Stanley Chan ([happy-dude](https://github.com/happy-dude))
- Fred Araujo ([araujof](https://github.com/araujof))

### This week highlights

- 

### Agenda

- [leogr] Revamping `falcoctl` / weekly update
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/issues/136
- [IanRobertson-wpe] Timeline/planning for issue 1909
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1909
- [alacuku] minikube support: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/2191
- [issif/fedep] new version for kernel crawler page https://falcosecurity.github.io/kernel-crawler/ (issif alone :P i just tested)
- [issif] falco.download on steroids https://thomas.labarussias.fr/falco-probes/
- [jacque] intros
- [jasondellaluce] plugin-sdk-cpp is still alive: https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugin-sdk-cpp/issues

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**:


## 2022-08-31

### MC

- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))

### Who joined

- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- David Windsor ([dub](https://github.com/dwindsor))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Fred Araujo ([araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))
- Luca Guerra ([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Jacqueline Salinas ([jsalinas29](https://github.com/jsalinas29))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))

### This week highlights

- [jasondellaluce] Falco got accepted for in-person project pavillion and project meeting at KubeCon NA :confetti_ball: 
    - https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/program/project-benefits/#description-of-benefits

### Agenda (Please add any items you would like to discuss here)

- [Andreagit97] propose myself as a Falco maintainer
- [fededp] New kernel-crawler gh pages: https://falcosecurity.github.io/kernel-crawler/
- [fededp] New interesting syscalls/tracepoint sets in libsinsp API (https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/521)
- [Molter73] e2e tests for the libs repo are open for review (https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/506)
- [leogr] Evolution repository has been renovated a bit
    - PTAL https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution :) 
- [jasondellalce] Final-ish PR for falco multi-source is open: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/2182
- [Issif] falco.download.org on steroids: https://thomas.labarussias.fr/falco-probes

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Aldo Lacuku


## 2022-08-24

### MC

- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))

### Who joined

- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))
- Alban Crequy ([@alban](https://github.com/alban))
- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Ian Robertson ([IanRobertson-wpe](https://github.com/IanRobertson-wpe))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Adao Junior ([junior](https://github.com/junior))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Jacqueline Salinas (@jsalinas29)
- Fred Araujo ([araujof](https://github.com/araujof))

### This week highlights

-  Governance update is approved!
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/pull/169
    - We reached supermajority in 3 days, which is a clear signal of maturity and stability
    - Huge thank you to all the maintainers and the folks involved in the process

### Agenda (Please add any items you would like to discuss here)
- [loresuso,alacuku,leogr] Falcoctl updates, distributing rules and plugins as OCI artifacts
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl/issues/103#issuecomment-1224073502
    - https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts
    - https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec
- [alban] Measuring CPU usage of Falco BPF programs
    - https://github.com/kinvolk/inspektor-gadget/blob/main/docs/guides/top/ebpf.md
    - The code is at https://github.com/kinvolk/inspektor-gadget/pull/754 
- [vjjmiras] Falco website update to Hugo 0.101.0 and Docsy 0.3.0
  - Pull request: [https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/676](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/676)
  - Preview: [https://deploy-preview-676--falcosecurity.netlify.app/](https://deploy-preview-676--falcosecurity.netlify.app/)
- [IanRobertson-wpe] Update on discussions with Google for support of Falco kernel drivers

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Lorenzo Susini


## 2022-08-10

### MC

- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))

### Who joined

- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- David Windsor ([dub](https://github.com/dwindsor))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Adnan Kobir ([adnankobir](https://github.com/adnankobir))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Pablo López ([@pabloopez](https://github.com/pabloopez))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Luca Guerra ([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))
- Sumit Bindal ([sumitb](https://github.com/sumitb))
- Ram Kailasanathan([rakaila](https://github.com/rakaila))
- Massimiliano Giovagnoli ([maxgio92](https://github.com/maxgio92))
- 


### This week highlights

- [Andreagit97] Falco 0.32.2 release
    - link to the release blog post: https://falco.org/blog/falco-0-32-2/
    - link to the github release: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/releases/tag/0.32.2

- [leogr/jason] Governance Update in progress
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/pull/169

### Agenda (Please add any items you would like to discuss here)


- [alacuku] Updates on Falcoctl
- [adnankobir] SNS ingestion from s3: https://github.com/falcosecurity/plugins/issues/135

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**:

# Falco Community Call

[More Information](https://github.com/falcosecurity/community)
[Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/my/cncffalcoproject)
[Recording](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgVVUpW8NIJAaZtszf1_nxB2y6mQrlY4s)

## 2022-08-03

### MC

- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))

### Who joined

- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Luca Guerra ([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Fred Araujo ([araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))

### This week highlights

- 

### Agenda (Please add any items you would like to discuss here)

- [Andreagit97] Updates on Falco 0.32.2 patch release
    - link to the release issue: https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/2149
    - link to the release branch in my fork: https://github.com/Andreagit97/falco/tree/release/0.32.2
    - write some documentation about it
- [LucaG] Libs unit test framework, AddressSanitizer support for UTs
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/485
- [leogr] Updates from maintainers
    - a security audit is staring
    - we are working on updating our governance
        - wip here https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/blob/docs/update-governance-2022-feedback/GOVERNANCE.md
        - we will open a PR soon
        - we will ask TAG contributor strategy for advice
- [LucaG] Proposing myself as a libs maintainer
    - andrea +1
    - leogr +1
    - mauro +1
- Welcome Ram Kailasanathan from Oracle
    - kickoff call with falco maintainers 
    - looking forward to introduce new contributors

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**:

## 2022-07-27

### MC

- Jason Dellaluce ([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))

### Who joined

- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- David Windsor ([dub](https://github.com/dwindsor))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- Thomas Labarussias ([Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Fred Araujo ([araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Luca Guerra ([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))

### This week highlights

- [fededp] Load of users and groups from containers https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/493

### Agenda (Please add any items you would like to discuss here)

- [fededp] Possible 0.32.2 Falco bugfix release? https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/2142 -> yes falco release
    - Andrea Terzolo proposed himself as Release manager
- [vjjmiras] Propose myself as a reviewer for falco-website 
- [vjjmiras] Blog post draft: https://deploy-preview-660--falcosecurity.netlify.app/blog/falco-driverkit-debian-docker/
- [alacuku] Updates on minikube drivers https://github.com/falcosecurity/test-infra/pull/782
- [Issif] K8sAuditLogs Plugin for EKS is almost done
- [loresuso] Possible journald plugin

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**:

- Jason Dellaluce([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))

## 2022-07-20

### MC

- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))

### Who joined

- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Luca Guerra ([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))
- Jason Dellaluce([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))
- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Pablo López ([@pabloopez](https://github.com/pabloopez))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- Stefano Chierici ([darryk10](https://github.com/darryk10))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Fred Araujo ([araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Adao Junior ([junior](https://github.com/junior))
- Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))

### This week highlights


### Agenda (Please add any items you would like to discuss here)

-  [leogr] Proposals to archive some inactive incubating projects
    - [katacoda-scenarios](https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/issues/160) by [pabloopez]
    - [client-rs](https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/issues/161)
    - [client-py](https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/issues/162)
    - [kilt](https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/issues/163)
    - [pdig](https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/issues/164)
- [leogr] Call for contributors/maintainers in some projects
    - Those (above) proposed to be archived
    - [falcoctl](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl)
- [leogr/jason/zuc/mauro/Fred/Teryl] A new Security Audit is coming
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/security/advisories
- [darryk10] Proposing myself as rule reviewer in falco repo https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/2137
- [LucaG] Proposal for tagging current libs (9f3ee66cd970ce57b3631944a94c76a2707cfcbc) as 0.8.0 
    - Correction: 850230b20cb2dba535ead9961bd87ea2ed718a93

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**:

- Jason Dellaluce([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))

## 2022-07-13

### MC

Teryl Taylor ([terylt](https://github.com/terylt))

### Who joined

- Federico Di Pierro ([fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Andrea Terzolo ([Andreagit97](https://github.com/Andreagit97))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Vicente J. Jiménez Miras ([vjjmiras](https://github.com/vjjmiras))
- Aldo Lacuku ([alacuku](https://github.com/alacuku))
- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
- Jason Dellaluce([jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Luca Guerra([LucaGuerra](https://github.com/LucaGuerra))
- Fred Araujo ([araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Lorenzo Susini ([@loresuso](https://github.com/loresuso))
- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- David Windsor ([dub](https://github.com/dwindsor))

### This week highlights

- [LucaG] Falco 0.32.1 release
- [fededp] libs ci on gh actions -> part 2. Now Merged :rocket:  https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/actions/workflows/ci.yml
- [Andreagit97] Updates on the modern BPF probe https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/373
- [leogr/alacuku] [Falco Helm Chart](https://github.com/falcosecurity/charts/blob/master/falco/CHANGELOG.md#v200) 2.0 is out
    - [PR](https://github.com/falcosecurity/charts/pull/356)

### Agenda (Please add any items you would like to discuss here)

- [fededp] Proposing myself as a Driverkit maintainer https://github.com/falcosecurity/driverkit/pull/181
- [fededp] Drop template-repository: https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/issues/154
    -  [leogr] +1
    -  [jason] +1
- [Molter73] Proposing myself as a libs repo maintainer
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/480
    - [deepskyblue86] everyone's happy :) :) :)
    - [leogr] +1
    - [FedeDP] +1
    - [Andreagit97] +1
- [jasondellaluce,leogr] Updates on maintainer list review
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/2115#issuecomment-1183232224

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**:

- Mauro Moltrasio ([Molter73](https://github.com/Molter73))
