## 2021-09-29

### MC

- LucaG ([@lucklypse](https://github.com/lucklypse))

### Who joined 

- Federico Di Pierro ([@fededp](https://github.com/FedeDP))
- Jason Dellaluce ([@jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Vicente Herrera ([@vicenherrera](https://github.com/vicenteherrera))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@Issif](https://github.com/Issif))

### This week highlights
    

### Agenda

- Update about the upcoming release (Falco 0.30.0)
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1741
- Release client-go 0.4.0
    - leodido doing it
- Upload or stream community call? Any proposal is welcome


### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 

## 2021-09-22

### MC

- LucaG ([@lucklypse](https://github.com/lucklypse))

### Who joined

- LucaG ([@lucklypse](https://github.com/lucklypse))
- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Jason Dellaluce ([@jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Alejandro Villanueva ([@seishinsha](https://github.com/seishinsha/))
- Federico Di Pierro ([@fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Zsolt Nemeth [@zsmav)](https://github.com/zsmav))
- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Péter Megyesi ([@Megzo](https://github.com/megzo))
- Vicente Herrera ([@vicenherrera](https://github.com/vicenteherrera))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))
- Travis Lowe (https://github.com/yogisec)
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Akos Kaldy ([@kaldyka](https://github.com/kaldyka))

### This week highlights


### Agenda

- Falco moving target defense demo by megyo and zsmav (https://www.r6security.com)
- [leogr] update about the upcoming release (Falco 0.30.0, due date September 30 2021)
    - 30mb issue fixed and more https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/milestone/19?closed=1
    - release manager 
        - Fred? + leogr
        - shadow: zuc/jasondellaluce
- [vicenherrera/seishinsha] MITRE ATT&CK tags https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1689 
    - proposal here https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1732

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 

## 2021-09-15

### MC

- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))

### Who joined
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))
- Jason Dellaluce ([@jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- LucaG ([@lucklypse](https://github.com/lucklypse))
- Domenico Chirabino ([@chirabino](https://github.com/chirabino))
- Federico Di Pierro ([@fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Daniele Di Vito ([@danieledivito](https://github.com/danieledivito))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Angelo Puglisi ([deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Mritunjay Sharma ([@mritunjaysharma394](https://github.com/mritunjaysharma394))

### This week highlights
- Contributor(s) of the Month (POP)

### Agenda
[@jasondellaluce, @fededp] adding support to `openat2` syscall https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/80
[@fededp, @jasondellaluce] fixed eBPF verifier issue that prevented eBPF probe to work on newer kernel and llvm https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/81
[anushka] demo on policy report output for sidekick https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/pull/256

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 

## 2021-09-08

### MC

- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))

### Who joined

- Jason Dellaluce ([@jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Gaurav Gahlot ([@gauravgahlot](https://github.com/gauravgahlot))
- Federico Di Pierro ([@fededp](https://github.com/fededp))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Luca ([@lucklypse](https://github.com/lucklypse))
- Anushka Mittal (https://github.com/anushkamittal20)

### This week highlights

### Agenda

- [@jasondellaluce] Tags in gRPC output https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1714
- [David Windsor] https://github.com/falcosecurity/driverkit/blob/af65823ae6f64158e5f03e2cd1f1a5311ecc3937/pkg/driverbuilder/kubernetes.go#L80
- @gauravgahlot [Fission output type blog post](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-website/pull/484)
- Falco adapter demo by Anushka https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/pull/256
- Rethink the docker image
    - https://github.com/sysflow-telemetry/sf-collector/blob/k8s_pod_integration/Dockerfile.ubi.amd64
    - https://github.com/sysflow-telemetry/sf-collector/blob/k8s_pod_integration/.github/workflows/ci.yaml



### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 


## 2021-09-01

### MC
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))

### Who joined

- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr)) 
- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Jason Dellaluce ([@jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Loris Degioanni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/lorisdegio))
- Radu Andries ([@admiral0](https://github.com/admiral0))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Luca ([@lucklypse](https://github.com/lucklypse))
- Daniele Di Vito ([@danieledivito](https://github.com/danieledivito))
- Domenico Chirabino ([@chirabino](https://github.com/chirabino))
- Matt Uebel ([@mattuebel](https://github.com/mattuebel))
- Zac Case ([@zacharycase](https://github.com/zacharycase))

### This week highlights
- New release cycle!
    - 3 times per year (January, May, and September)
    - https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-falco-dev/message/280
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/blob/master/RELEASE.md#falco-release-process

### Agenda
- [performance](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1710) concerns/questions - ([mattuebel](https://github.com/mattuebel))
    - anybody else running at ~75 node ~3k pods scale?
    - syscall performance profiling?
    - make syscall collection configurable at runtime? 
    - very interested in the next release for the 30MB pod list limit bug fix
    - [lucag] provided this link --> https://falco.org/docs/rules/#ignored-system-calls , https://deploy-preview-489--falcosecurity.netlify.app/docs/rules/supported-events/

- [userspace] Falco in userspace - support for terraform provider [admiral0]
    - Do we want an official kilt provider for terraform?
    - Requirements from hashicorp to include the provider on their site
    - Radu to write up documentation and blog post on how to utilize kilt.
- 

### Closing
- **MC Next Call**: 


## 2021-08-18

### MC
- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))

### Who joined

- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Jose Ortiz ([@zitroij](https://github.com/zitroij))
- Jason Dellaluce ([@jasondellaluce](https://github.com/jasondellaluce))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@Issif](https://github.com/Issif))


### This week highlights


### Agenda
- Open Floor
- libs usability (open a git issue?)
- release 0.30.0 to be postponed
    - no new feature merged
    - new release cycle?

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))


## 2021-08-04

### MC
- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))


### Who joined
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Pablo Lopez ([@pabloopez](https://github.com/pabloopez))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Furkan Türkal ([@Dentrax](https://github.com/Dentrax))
- Loris Degioanni ([@ldegio](https://github.com/ldegio))
- Batuhan Apaydın ([@developer-guy](https://github.com/developer-guy)])
- Angelo Puglisi ([@deepskyblue86](https://github.com/deepskyblue86))
- Anthony Alessi ([@anthony-alessi-acquia](https://github.com/anthony-alessi-acquia))
- Mark Stemm ([@mstemm](https://github.com/mstemm))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Houssem El Fekih([@SpectralHiss](https://github.com/SpectralHiss)
- Sreeda U M([@sreedaum] https://github.com/sreedaum) 

### This week highlights


### Agenda

- Plugins Proposal [Mark Stemm, Loris] https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1637
- SysFlow overview [Fred, Teryl]
- Unarchive the katacoda repository in order to make the PR [pablo]
- Contributor of the Month Awarded [pop]

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 

## 2021-07-21

### MC

- Pablo Lopez ([@pabloopez](https://github.com/pabloopez))

### Who joined
- Pablo Lopez ([@pabloopez](https://github.com/pabloopez))
- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Alejandro Villanueva ([@seishinsha](https://github.com/seishinsha/)) - will join late

### This week highlights
- Contributor of the Month [pop]

### Agenda
- [zuc] Please share your comments/experience with recent falco/libs improvements on the "30mb issue"
  - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1667
  - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1671
- [POP] contributor of the month
- [leogr] Some updates
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/56
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/evolution/pull/88 Project status
- [pablo] update about Katacoda next steps (service closing soon)
- [terylt] 
    - [PR](https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/49/files) interest.
    - And looking to contribute more to the project (Collector. Integrate with elastic, s3 buckets, IBM internals) [+araujof]
- [alejandro] [PR](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1689) released. Kaizhe reviewing. Ask people to review the PR too.

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))

## 2021-07-14

### MC

- [Carlos Panato](https://github.com/cpanato)

### Who joined
- Daniele Di Vito ([@danieledivito](https://github.com/danieledivito))
- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))
- Leonardo Grasso ([leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- Fred Araujo ([@araujof](https://github.com/araujof))
- Pablo Lopez ([@pabloopez](https://github.com/pabloopez))
- Teryl Taylor ([@terylt](https://github.com/terylt))
- Alejandro Villanueva ([@seishinsha](https://github.com/seishinsha/)) - will join late

### This week highlights


### Agenda

- [leogr] Quick update on the [30mb issue #778](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/778)
    - Both patches have been merged into libs ([libs#40](https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/40) by Loris, [libs#49](https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/49) by leogr)
    - Two PRs on Falco to integrate these patches are ready and under review:
        - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1667 by Zuc
        - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1671 by leogr
    - Slack thread [here](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CMWH3EH32/p1622649081316900)
- Status about the Falco Graduation
    - See https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/641
- [alejandro] Quick update on https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/pull/1689 (MITRE ATT&CK rule tags)
- Contributor of the Month Nominations starting next week 7/21 .. we will decide by 7/28.

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: Pablo Lopez ([@pabloopez](https://github.com/pabloopez))

## 2021-07-07

### MC

- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))

### Who joined
- Domenico Chirabino ([@chirabino](https://github.com/chirabino))
- Daniele Di Vito ([@danieledivito](https://github.com/danieledivito))
- Michele Zuccala ([@zuc](https://github.com/zuc))
- POP ([POP](https://github.com/danpopsd))
- Cash Williams ([@cashwilliams](https://github.com/cashwilliams))
- Leonardo Grasso ([@leogr](https://github.com/leogr))
- Pablo Lopez ([@pabloopez](https://github.com/pabloopez))
- Thomas Labarussias ([@Issif](https://github.com/Issif))
- Luca Avalle ([@theluke](https://github.com/theluke))
- Stefano Chierici([@darryk10](https://github.com/darryk10))
- Leonardo Di Donato ([@leodido](https://github.com/leodido))

### This week highlights


### Agenda
- [Domenico] Split rules similar to [Wazuh ruleset](https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh/tree/master/ruleset) proposal ([issue #1584](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1673))   
    - (@leogr suggested for bypassing rules by tag - https://falco.org/docs/rules/#tags) Similar Issue - for splitting rules by platform 
    - https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/issues/1584 - poll launched https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1uNukAAO1xwyQOnsIOz3AT2pextTNPsip5sn-XuLu1Hw/edit 
     - Poll created by Stefano https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1uNukAAO1xwyQOnsIOz3AT2pextTNPsip5sn-XuLu1Hw/viewform?edit_requested=true
 
- [Daniele] Ignored events: add custom ignored events for kernel syscall for performance issues on certain environments
    - Implementable in libsinsp/libscap (look for SIMPLE_DROP_CONS)
    - Taking a look at -A could help
- [leogr]   30mb PR's
  (https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/40)
  (https://github.com/falcosecurity/libs/pull/49)

### Closing

- **MC Next Call**: 
